1
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
17 CFR Parts 201, 232, 240, 242, and 249
[Release No. 34-94615; File No. S7-14-22]
RIN 3235-AK93
Rules Relating to Security-Based Swap Execution and Registration and Regulation of
Security-Based Swap Execution Facilities
AGENCY: Securities and Exchange Commission.
ACTION: Proposed rule; withdrawal.
SUMMARY: The Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC” or “Commission”) is
proposing a set of rules (“Regulation SE”) and forms under Section 3D of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 (“SEA”) that would create a regime for the registration and regulation of
security-based swap execution facilities (“SBSEFs”) and address other issues relating to
security-based swap (“SBS”) execution generally. One of the rules being proposed as part of
Regulation SE would implement Section 765 of the Dodd-Frank Act, which is intended to
mitigate conflicts of interest at SBSEFs and national securities exchanges that trade SBS (“SBS
exchanges”). Other rules being proposed as part of Regulation SE would address the crossborder application of the SEA’s trading venue registration requirements and the trade execution
requirement for SBS.
In addition, the Commission is proposing to amend an existing rule to exempt, from the
SEA definition of “exchange,” certain registered clearing agencies as well as registered SBSEFs
that provide a market place only for SBS. The Commission also is proposing a new rule that,
while affirming that an SBSEF would be a broker under the SEA, would exempt a registered
SBSEF from certain broker requirements. Finally, the Commission is proposing certain new
2
rules and amendments to its Rules of Practice to allow persons who are aggrieved by certain
actions by an SBSEF to apply for review by the Commission. The Commission also is
withdrawing all previously proposed rules regarding these subjects.
DATES: Comments should be received on or before [INSERT DATE 30 DAYS AFTER
DATE OF PUBLICATION IN FEDERAL REGISTER OR JUNE 6, 2022 (WHICH IS 60
DAYS AFTER ISSUANCE), WHICHEVER IS LATER]. As of [insert date of publication in
the Federal Register], the SEC is withdrawing the following previously proposed rules and rule
amendments: all rules and rule amendments proposed in SEA Release No. 63825 (76 FR 10948,
published on February 28, 2011); the proposed rules pertaining to SBSEFs and SBS exchanges
in SEA Release No. 63107 (75 FR 63107, published on October 26, 2010); and the proposed
rules and interpretations pertaining to the SEA’s trading venue registration requirements and the
trade execution requirement for SBS in SEA Release No. 69490 (78 FR 30968, published on
May 23, 2013).
ADDRESSES: Comments may be submitted by any of the following methods:
Electronic comments:
• Use the Commission’s internet comment form
(http://www.sec.gov/rules/submitcomments.htm); or
• Send an email to rule-comments@sec.gov. Please include File No. S7-14-22 on the
subject line.
Paper comments:
• Send paper comments to Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 100 F Street
NE, Washington, DC 20549-1090.
All submissions should refer to File Number S7-14-22. This file number should be
3
included on the subject line if email is used. To help the Commission process and review your
comments more efficiently, please use only one method of submission. The Commission will
post all comments on the Commission’s internet website
(http://www.sec.gov/rules/proposed.shtml). Comments are also available for website viewing
and printing in the Commission’s Public Reference Room, 100 F Street NE, Washington, DC
20549, on official business days between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 3:00 p.m. Operating
conditions may limit access to the Commission’s public reference room. All comments received
will be posted without change. Persons submitting comments are cautioned that the Commission
does not redact or edit personal identifying information from comment submissions. You should
submit only information that you wish to make publicly available.
Studies, memoranda, or other substantive items may be added by the Commission or staff
to the comment file during this rulemaking. A notification of the inclusion in the comment file
of any such materials will be made available on the Commission’s website. To ensure direct
electronic receipt of such notifications, sign up through the “Stay Connected” option at
www.sec.gov to receive notifications by email.
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Michael Gaw, Assistant Director, at (202)
551-5602; David Liu, Special Counsel, at (312) 353-6265; Leah Mesfin, Special Counsel, at
(202) 551-5655; Michou Nguyen, Special Counsel, at (202) 551-7768; Geoffrey Pemble, Special
Counsel, at (202) 551-5628; or Mark Sater, Counsel, at (202) 551-4729; all of whom are in the
Division of Trading and Markets, Securities and Exchange Commission, 100 F Street, NE,
Washington, DC 20549.
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The Commission is proposing new 17 CFR 242.800
through 835 to create a regime for the registration and regulation of SBSEFs and address other
4
issues relating to SBS execution generally. Regulation SE would consist of 17 CFR 242.800
through 835 (proposed Rules 800 through 835). Key rules within Regulation SE would include
Rule 803, which would establish a process for SBSEF registration; Rules 804 to 810, which
would establish procedures for rule and product filings by SBSEFs; Rule 815, which would
establish permissible execution methods for SBS that are subject to the SEA’s trade execution
requirement; Rule 816, which would set out a procedure for SBSEFs to make an SBS available
to trade and establish certain exemptions from the trade execution requirement; Rules 818 to
831, which would implement the 14 Core Principles for SBSEFs set forth in Section 3D(d) of the
SEA; Rules 832 to 833, which would address cross-border matters; and Rule 834, which would
impose requirements addressing conflicts of interest involving SBSEFs and SBS exchanges, as
required by Section 765 of the Dodd-Frank Act.
In addition to the rules described above, the Commission is also proposing 17 CFR
249.2001 (Form SBSEF), which is the form that an entity would use to register with the
Commission as an SBSEF; 17 CFR 249.2002 (a submission cover sheet), which would be
required to accompany filings with the Commission made by SBSEFs for rule and rule
amendments and for product listings; amendments to 17 CFR 232.405 (Rule 405 of Regulation
S-T) to require various SBSEF filings to be provided in Inline eXtensible Business Reporting
Language (“Inline XBRL”), a structured data language; amendments to 17 CFR 240.3a1-1 (Rule
3a1-1 under the SEA) to exempt from the SEA definition of “exchange” certain registered
clearing agencies as well as registered SBSEFs that provide a market place only for SBS; 17
CFR 240.15a-12 (Rule 15a-12 under the SEA) that, while affirming that an SBSEF also would
be a broker under the SEA, would exempt a registered SBSEF from certain broker requirements;
to sunset an existing exemption from the requirement to register as a clearing agency for an
5
entity performing the functions of an SBSEF but that is not yet registered as such; and certain
new rules and amendments to 17 CFR Part 201 (the Commission’s Rules of Practice) to allow
persons who are aggrieved by certain actions by an SBSEF to apply for review by the
Commission.
The Commission also is withdrawing all previously proposed rules, rule amendments,
and interpretations regarding these subjects in view of the length of time that has passed since
they were issued and significant changes to the swap and SBS markets that have taken place
during that time.
Table of Contents
I. Background
II. Relation to the SEF Market
III. Approach to the Commission’s Proposed Requirements Relating to Security-Based Swap
Execution
IV. Introductory Provisions of Regulation SE
A. Rule 800—Scope
B. Rule 801—Applicable Provisions
C. Rule 802—Definitions
V. Registration of SBSEFs
A. Rule 803—Requirements and procedures for registration
B. Form SBSEF
C. Abbreviated registration procedures for CFTC-registered SEFs
VI. Rule and Product Filings by SBSEFs
A. Rule 804—Listing products for trading by certification
B. Rule 805—Voluntary submission of new products for Commission review and
approval
C. Rule 806—Voluntary submission of rules for Commission review and approval
D. Rule 807—Self-certification of rules
E. Submission cover sheet and instructions
F. Rule 808—Availability of public information
G. Rule 809—Staying of certification and tolling of review period pending
jurisdictional determination
H. Rule 810—Product filings by SBSEFs that are not yet registered and by dormant
SBSEFs
VII. Miscellaneous Requirements
A. Rule 811—Information relating to SBSEF compliance
 1. Harmonization with § 37.5
6
2. Harmonization with § 1.60
B. Rule 812—Enforceability
C. Rule 813—Prohibited use of data collected for regulatory purposes
D. Rule 814—Entity operating both a national securities exchange and SBSEF
E. Rule 815—Methods of execution for Required and Permitted Transactions
F. Rule 816—Trade execution requirement and exemptions therefrom
1. Process for an SBSEF to make an SBS product available to trade
2. Exemptions from trade execution requirement
G. Rule 817—Trade execution compliance schedule
VIII. Implementation of Core Principles
A. Rule 818—Core Principle 1—Compliance with Core Principles
B. Rule 819—Core Principle 2—Compliance with rules
1. Rules modelled on Subpart C of Part 37
2. Provisions of Rule 819 adapted from other SEF requirements
a. Rule 819(h)—Activities of SBSEF’s employees, governing board
members, committee members, and consultants
b. Rule 819(i)—Service on SBSEF governing boards or committees by
persons with disciplinary histories
c. Rule 819(j)—Notification of final disciplinary action involving
financial harm to a customer
d. Rule 819(k)—Designation of agent for non-U.S. member
C. Rule 820—Core Principle 3—SBS not readily susceptible to manipulation
D. Rule 821—Core Principle 4—Monitoring of trading and trade processing
E. Rule 822—Core Principle 5—Ability to obtain information
F. Rule 823—Core Principle 6—Financial integrity of transactions
G. Rule 824—Core Principle 7—Emergency authority
H. Rule 825—Core Principle 8—Timely publication of trading information
I. Rule 826—Core Principle 9—Recordkeeping and reporting
J. Rule 827—Core Principle 10—Antitrust considerations
K. Rule 828—Core Principle 11—Conflicts of interest
L. Rule 829—Core Principle 12—Financial resources
M. Rule 830—Core Principle 13—System safeguards
N. Rule 831—Core Principle 14—Designation of chief compliance officer
IX. Cross-Border Rules
A. Rule 832—Cross-border mandatory trade execution
B. Rule 833—Cross-border exemptions
1. Exemptions for foreign SBS trading venues
2. Exemptions relating to the trade execution requirement
X. Rule 834—Implementation of Section 765 of the Dodd-Frank Act and Governance of
SBSEFs and SBS exchanges
XI. Rule 835—Notice to Commission by SBSEF of Final Disciplinary Action, Denial or
Conditioning of Membership, or Denial or Limitation of Access
XII. Amendments to Existing Rule 3a1-1 under the SEA-Exemptions from the Definition of
“Exchange”
XIII. Rule 15a-12—SBSEFs as Registered Brokers; Relief from Certain Broker Requirements
7
XIV. Proposed Sunsetting of Temporary Exemption from SEA Definition of “Clearing
Agency” for Unregistered SBSEFs
XV. Electronic Filings under Regulation SE
XVI. Amendments to Commission’s Rules of Practice for Appeals of SBSEF Actions
A. Amendment to Rule 101
B. Amendment to Rule 202
C. Amendment to Rule 210
D. Amendment to Rule 401
E. Rule 442—Right to appeal
F. Rule 443—Sua sponte review by Commission
G. Amendment to Rule 450
H. Amendment to Rule 460
I. Request for comment
XVII. Conclusion
XVIII. Compliance Schedule
XIX. Economic Analysis
A. Introduction
B. Economic baseline
1. Available data from the SBS market
2. SBS market activity and participants
a. SBS Entities
b. Other SBS market participants
c. SBS market participant domiciles
3. Distribution of transaction size
4. Other markets and regulatory frameworks
5. Number of entities that likely will register as SBSEFs
6. SBS trading on platforms
7. Global regulatory efforts
8. Trading models
C. Benefits, costs, and reasonable alternatives
1. Overarching benefits of the proposal
2. Benefits associated with specific proposed rules
3. Costs
a. Registration requirements for SBSEFs and Form SBSEF
b. Ongoing compliance with other requirements that are similar to the
remainder of Part 37
c. Rule and product filing processes for SBSEFs
d. Proposed Rules 809, 811, 819, 826, 833, 834, and 835
e. Assessment costs
f. Structured data costs
4. Reasonable alternatives
D. Effects on efficiency, competition, and capital formation
1. Competition
2. Capital formation
3. Efficiency
8
E. Request for comment
XX. Paperwork Reduction Act
A. Summary of collection of information
B. Proposed use of information
1. Registration requirements and Form SBSEF
2. Requirements for SBSEFs to establish rules
3. Reporting requirements for SBSEFs
4. Recordkeeping required under Regulation SE
5. Timely publication of trading information requirement for SBSEFs
6. Rule filing and product filing processes for SBSEFs
7. Requirements relating to the CCO
8. Surveillance systems requirements for SBSEFs
C. Respondents
D. Total annual reporting and recordkeeping burden
1. Overview
2. Aggregate burdens for rules modelled after CFTC Part 37 rules
a. Registration requirements for SBSEFs and Form SBSEF
b. Ongoing compliance with other requirements that are similar to the
remainder of Part 37
3. Aggregate burdens for rules modelled on CFTC Part 40 rules
a. Rule and product filing processes for SBSEFs
b. Burdens related to rules modelled after other Part 40 rules
i. Rule 802
ii. Rule 809
4. Aggregate burdens for rules modelled after CFTC rules other than Parts 37 and
40
a. Rule 811(d)
b. Rule 819(h)
c. Rule 819(i)
d. Rule 819(j)
e. Rule 819(k)
f. Rule 826(f)
g. Rule 834
5. Miscellaneous burdens
a. Rule 833
b. Rule 835
6. Total paperwork burden under proposed Regulation SE
E. Collection of information is mandatory
F. Responses to collection of information will not be confidential
G. Retention period of recordkeeping requirements
H. Request for comment
XXI. Regulatory Flexibility Certification
A. SBSEFs
B. Persons requesting an exemption order pursuant to Rule 833
C. SBS exchanges
9
D. Certification
XXII. Consideration of Impact on Economy
Statutory Authority
I. Background
Section 3D of the SEA,
1 enacted as part of Title VII of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street
Reform and Consumer Protection Act (“Dodd-Frank Act”),2 provides for the registration and
regulation of SBSEFs. Section 3D(a)(1) provides that no person may operate a facility for the
trading or processing of SBS, unless the facility is registered as an SBSEF or as a national
securities exchange. Section 3D(d) enumerates 14 Core Principles with which SBSEFs must
comply.3
 Section 3D(f) requires the Commission to prescribe rules governing the regulation of
SBSEFs.
Section 765 of the Dodd-Frank Act directs the Commission to adopt rules to mitigate
conflicts of interest with respect to clearing agencies that clear SBS (“SBS clearing agencies”),
SBSEFs, and national securities exchanges that post or make available for trading SBS (“SBS
exchanges”). In October 2010, the Commission published for comment proposed Regulation
MC to implement Section 765.4
 1 15 U.S.C. 78c-4. In this release, the Commission is defining the Securities Exchange Act
as the “SEA” to distinguish it from the Commodity Exchange Act (“CEA”).
2 Public Law No. 111-203, H.R. 4173, § 763(c).
3 See infra Section VIII (listing the Core Principles).
4 Ownership Limitations and Governance Requirements for Security-Based Swap Clearing
Agencies, Security-Based Swap Execution Facilities, and National Securities Exchanges
With Respect to Security-Based Swaps Under Regulation MC, SEA Release No. 63107
(October 14, 2010), 75 FR 65882 (October 26, 2010) (“Regulation MC Proposal”).
10
In February 2011, the Commission published for comment: (1) proposed Regulation
SBSEF that would govern the registration and regulation of SBSEFs, including rules to
implement the 14 Core Principles and rules requiring SBSEFs to submit filings with the
Commission to list SBS and to establish or amend rules; (2) proposed Form SBSEF for an entity
to register with the Commission as an SBSEF; (3) a proposed interpretation of the definition of
“security-based swap execution facility”; and (4) proposed exemptions for registered SBSEFs
relating to their status also as “exchanges” and “brokers.”5
 On May 23, 2013, the Commission
issued a proposing release to address various cross-border aspects of its proposed Title VII
rules6
—which included a proposed rule on the application of Title VII’s “trade execution
requirement”7 to cross-border SBS transactions and a proposed interpretation of when the
SBSEF registration requirements would apply to a foreign venue that trades SBS (a “foreign SBS
 5 Registration and Regulation of Security-Based Swap Execution Facilities, SEA Release
No. 63825 (February 2, 2011), 76 FR 10948 (February 28, 2011) (“2011 SBSEF
Proposal”).
6 Cross-Border Security-Based Swap Activities; Re-Proposal of Regulation SBSR and
Certain Rules and Forms Relating to the Registration of Security-Based Swap Dealers
and Major Security-Based Swap Participants, SEA Release No. 69490 (May 1, 2013), 78
FR 30968 (May 23, 2013) (“Cross-Border Proposing Release”).
7 The “trade execution requirement” as used with respect to SBS refers to a provision
mandated by Title VII and set forth in Section 3C(h) of the SEA that requires a
transaction involving an SBS that is subject to the clearing requirement of Section 3C to
be executed on a national securities exchange, a registered SBSEF, or an SBSEF that is
exempt from registration under Section 3D(e) of the SEA. See infra note 106 and
accompanying text. A similar provision regarding swaps is set forth in Section 2(h)(8) of
the CEA.
11
trading venue”)8
—and reopened the comment period for various proposed rulemaking releases
and policy statements under Title VII, including the 2011 SBSEF Proposal.9
In view of the passage of time since these earlier proposals were issued and the
significant market and regulatory developments affecting swaps and SBS over those years, the
Commission is issuing this new proposal relating to the registration and regulation of SBSEFs
and to SBS execution generally. Accordingly, the Regulation MC Proposal, the 2011 SBSEF
Proposal, and the elements of the Cross-Border Proposing Release relating to the trade execution
requirement and the registration status of foreign SBS trading venues are withdrawn. The
proposed rules discussed below supersede all previous Commission proposals on these
subjects.
10
II. Relation to the SEF Market
The economic baseline for establishing a registration and regulatory regime for SBSEFs
and SBS execution generally has changed considerably since the Commission issued the 2011
SBSEF Proposal. In June 2013, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (“CFTC”)
adopted rules under Title VII of the Dodd-Frank Act for swap execution facilities (“SEFs”).11
 8 See id., 78 FR at 31053-58 (discussing potential exemptions for foreign SBS trading
venues) and 31081-85 (discussing a proposed rule to address the application of the trade
execution requirement to cross-border SBS transactions).
9 Reopening of Comment Periods for Certain Proposed Rulemaking Releases and Policy
Statements applicable to Security-Based Swaps, SEA Release No. 69491 (May 1, 2013),
78 FR 30800 (May 23, 2013) (“Reopening of Comment Periods Release”).
10 The Commission notes, however, that Rule 834 of proposed Regulation SE would
implement Section 765 only with respect to SBSEFs and SBS exchanges.
11 See CFTC, Core Principles and Other Requirements for Swap Execution Facilities, 78
FR 33476 (June 4, 2013) (“2013 CFTC Final SEF Rules Release”); CFTC, Process for a
Designated Contract Market or Swap Execution Facility To Make a Swap Available to
12
The swap market has grown and matured within the framework established by the CFTC’s rules.
In 2018, the CFTC proposed to make fundamental changes to the SEF regulatory structure.
12
However, according to the CFTC, “[s]everal commenters expressed concern over the magnitude
of changes” in the proposal.
13 In 2021, the CFTC ultimately declined to finalize the 2018 SEF
Proposal and elected instead “to improve the SEF framework through targeted rulemakings that
address distinct issues.” 14 Accordingly, the CFTC withdrew the unadopted portions of its 2018
proposal.15 Currently, the CFTC has no proposals outstanding to further amend its SEF rules.
Because of the close relationship between the swap and SBS markets, an analysis of swap
trading on CFTC-registered SEFs offers insights into the potential development of SBS trading
on SEC-registered SBSEFs.16 Currently, there are 20 non-dormant entities registered with the

Trade, Swap Transaction Compliance and Implementation Schedule, and Trade
Execution Requirement Under the Commodity Exchange Act, 78 FR 33606 (June 4, 2013)
(“2013 CFTC Final MAT Rules” and, together with the 2013 CFTC Final SEF Rules
Release, the “2013 CFTC SEF Rules”).
12 See CFTC, Swap Execution Facilities and Trade Execution Requirement, 83 FR 61946
(November 30, 2018) (“2018 SEF Proposal”).
13 CFTC, Swap Execution Facilities and Trade Execution Requirement – Proposed rule;
partial withdrawal, 86 FR 9304, 9304 (February 12, 2021).
14 Id.
15 See id., 86 FR at 9304-05.
16 The Commission bases its preliminary analysis on trading of credit derivatives. Other
swap asset classes that trade on SEFs, such as interest rate swaps (“IRS”) and foreign
exchange swaps, have no analogs in the SBS market. While there are parallels between
the equity swap and equity SBS markets, equity swap trading on SEFs appears to be
minimal.
13
CFTC as SEFs.17 In 2021, volume in index credit default swaps (“CDS”) traded on CFTCregistered SEFs was distributed as follows: one SEF had the largest share of index CDS volume
(in notional amount) at $8 trillion (69%); one SEF had the second largest share at $2.1 trillion
(18%); and the remaining 13% of volume was shared among five other SEFs.
18 As discussed in
Section XIX below, only a small fraction of SBS trading occurs on platforms currently. Further,
some trading occurs on platforms that do not include CFTC-registered SEFs.
Based on research from publicly available sources as well as discussions with CFTCregistered SEFs, the Commission understands that the SBS market—both on organized platforms
that are potential SBSEF registrants and on a purely over-the-counter (“OTC”) basis—is a small
fraction of the overall swap market.
19 Furthermore, the single-name CDS market, which falls
under SEC jurisdiction, is smaller than the index CDS market, which falls under CFTC
jurisdiction.
20 Because the swap markets are larger than the SBS markets, the opportunities for
revenue capture from swap execution are much larger than from SBS execution. In view of the
SBS market’s size relative to the swap market, the Commission is sensitive to the economic
impact that its final rules for SBSEFs could have.
The entities that are most likely to register with the Commission as SBSEFs are those
already registered with the CFTC as SEFs.21 These entities have made substantial investments in
 17 See CFTC, Trading Organizations—Swap Execution Facilities (SEF),
https://sirt.cftc.gov/SIRT/SIRT.aspx?Topic=SwapExecutionFacilities (accessed on
January 25, 2022).
18 See infra note 376 and accompanying text.
19 See infra note 371 and accompanying text.
20 See id.
21 See infra Section XIX(B)(5).
14
systems, policies, and procedures to comply with and adapt to the regulatory system developed
by the CFTC. To the extent that the Commission harmonizes its SBSEF rules with the CFTC’s
SEF rules, dually registered entities could utilize their existing systems, policies, and procedures
to comply with the Commission’s SBSEF rules, and SEF market participants would face no or
only incremental changes to trade SBS as well as swaps on those facilities, and to comply with
the Commission’s rules regarding SBS trading. To the extent that the Commission establishes
different or additive requirements, dually registered entities and their market participants might
need to incur costs and burdens to modify their systems, policies, and procedures to comply with
the SEC-specific rules. As indicated below, the Commission seeks comment on such costs and
burdens in light of the CFTC’s SEF rules.22 Accordingly, as discussed below, the Commission is
proposing to take the general approach of harmonizing closely with analogous CFTC SEF rules,
except where differences in the SEC’s statutory authority relative to the CFTC’s statutory
authority or differences in the SBS market relative to the swap market necessitate differences
between the Commission’s rules and the CFTC’s, or where the Commission preliminarily
believes that the benefits of deviating from the CFTC’s rules would otherwise justify the burdens
 22 Consider the following example: § 37.1306(a) of the CFTC’s rules, which is among the
rules that implements CEA Core Principle 13 (Financial resources), requires a SEF to
submit a financial report to the CFTC every quarter (i.e., every three months). To
implement the corresponding Core Principle under the SEA, the Commission could
require an SBSEF to file only three financial reports per year, rather than four. All things
being equal, filing three reports per year is less burdensome than filing four. But all
things are not equal, because of the CFTC’s rules. In this case, requiring new “off cycle”
reporting by a dually registered SEF/SBSEF would likely be more burdensome than
allowing the dually registered entity to make the same four filings, on the same cycle,
with both the SEC and CFTC. As discussed later in this release, the Commission is
proposing a rule closely modelled on § 37.1306(a) that would require the same type of
financial report as the CFTC rule, and for that report to be filed quarterly. See proposed
Rule 829(g).
15
and costs associated with imposing different or additional requirements than the corresponding
CFTC rule. Throughout this release, the Commission will seek comment on the accuracy of
these assumptions. In particular, the Commission seeks comment on the following:
1. How many CFTC-registered SEFs do you believe will seek to register with the
Commission as SBSEFs? Please explain.
2. Are there any entities that will seek to register with the Commission as SBSEFs but not
register with the CFTC as SEFs? If so, please explain and estimate how many.
3. For SEFs that will likely seek registration with the Commission as SBSEFs, please
estimate the size of their swaps business versus the anticipated size of their SBS business,
using any metric(s) that you believe would be illustrative (e.g., number of products listed,
trade count, aggregate notional size traded, number of counterparties trading swaps
versus SBS, etc.).
4. Please provide any information or market data that you believe would be illustrative
regarding current SBS trading activity on entities that are not likely to register with the
Commission as SBSEFs, and thus would have to cease SBS trading upon the compliance
date of the Commission’s SBSEF rules. Do you believe that this activity would migrate
to registered SBSEFs or would it migrate instead to the bilateral OTC market?
5. What types of products do you anticipate could be listed by registered SBSEFs (e.g.,
CDS on individual corporate bonds, CDS on individual sovereign bonds, CDS on
individual securitized bonds, swaps on securities options, swaps on narrow-based
securities indexes, total return swaps on individual cash equities or crypto/digital asset
securities, etc.)?
In the remainder of this release, the Commission describes its proposed registration and
16
regulation regime for SBSEFs and SBS execution generally, and seeks comment on all aspects of
its proposal. You are invited in particular to provide data and analysis regarding the economic
and Paperwork Reduction Act (“PRA”) implications of this proposal. For example, the
Commission seeks comment on the following:
6. If, in a particular area, the Commission were to harmonize closely with a CFTC rule,
to what extent would this reduce, or perhaps eliminate entirely, any incremental costs
or burdens on dually registered SEF/SBSEFs and their members?
7. Should the Commission impose any different or additive requirements? For example,
are there any statutory or market differences that would create benefits from different
or additive requirements? If the Commission imposes different or additive
requirements, what would be the impact on dually registered SEF/SBSEFs and their
members?
8. Are there provisions of the CFTC’s rules the Commission should not incorporate,
even if the Commission were to opt for harmonization with the CFTC’s rules in other
areas? In other words, are there areas where not harmonizing with a CFTC rule
would reduce burdens on SBSEFs and/or their members? If so, please explain, with
particular regard to the economic impacts and/or PRA burdens.
9. Do you believe that the Commission should adopt different or additive requirements
for SBSEFs, even if there is no analog to such provisions in the CFTC’s SEF rules?
If so, please explain, with particular regards to the economic impacts and/or PRA
burdens. For example, do you believe that the SEC-specific provision would impose
additional costs or burdens on SBSEFs and/or their members that are nevertheless
appropriate in view of new and additional benefits? Or do you believe that an SEC-
17
specific provision would be appropriate because it would relieve costs or burdens that
are imposed on the swap business by a CFTC rule that is unnecessary or inappropriate
in the SBS market?
10. If the Commission ultimately adopts SBSEF rules that are closely harmonized with
the CFTC’s SEF rules, do you believe this could result in ambiguities or potential
conflicts between the SEC’s SBSEF rules and the other SEC rules (pertaining, for
example, to exchanges or alternative trading systems)? If so, please indicate where
this might occur and suggest ways that the Commission could reduce these
ambiguities or potential conflicts.
III. Approach to the Commission’s Proposed Requirements Relating to Security-Based
Swap Execution
Most of the rules proposed in this release are designed to implement provisions of
Section 3D of the SEA,23 which is nearly identical to Section 5h of the CEA.24 As described in
detail throughout this release, when the Commission is proposing a rule to implement a provision
of Section 3D of the SEA, that rule generally will harmonize as closely as practicable with the
analogous CFTC rule, unless a reason exists to do otherwise.25 Indeed, many of the rules
proposed herein are adapted from the CFTC rules, with only minor changes to reflect differences
in the Commission’s statutory authority (e.g., using the term “security-based swap” instead of
“swap,” cross-referencing provisions of the SEA rather than the CEA, etc.). The Commission
 23 15 U.S.C 78c-4.
24 7 U.S.C. 7b-3.
25 Other rules, however, are designed to address certain issues relating to SBSEFs that are
specific to the SEA. These include proposed amendments to existing Rule 3a1-1 under
the SEA, proposed new Rule 15a-12, and various proposed amendments to the
Commission’s Rules of Practice.
18
seeks to minimize occasions where differences in the wording between an SEC and a CFTC rule
leads affected persons to believe that there is a difference in policy outcome, where no difference
in outcome is intended.
In cases where the Commission preliminarily believes that a reason exists for a proposed
SEC rule to differ from an analogous CFTC rule, that reason is described and alternate rule
language is proposed and explained. Here too, the Commission might be in general agreement
with the policy behind the CFTC’s rule, but it might not be practicable to closely track the CFTC
rule language, for reasons that are specific to each instance and which will be discussed herein.
In proposing these rules, the Commission acknowledges that, in the abstract, there are a
variety of ways of implementing a Core Principle or other policy goal where the benefits could
justify the costs. Indeed, the Commission’s 2011 SBSEF Proposal includes many such alternate
ways that differ from the CFTC’s current rules. But the CFTC’s rules for SEF—and swap
execution more generally—have significantly reshaped the swap market, and indirectly the SBS
market. The fundamental principles of the CFTC’s regulatory regime for SEFs and swap
execution generally have established the existing environment, and any rules proposed by the
SEC to implement the regulatory regime for SBSEFs and SBS execution more generally must be
considered against the CFTC’s regulatory regime. SEFs and swap market participants have
invested significant resources in systems, policies, and procedures to comply with the CFTC’s
SEF rules. The Commission believes that the CFTC’s rules are reasonably designed to
implement Section 5h of the CEA, which is nearly identical to Section 3D of the SEA, and have
been effective in practice in facilitating fair, transparent, and competitive trading on SEFs. By
proposing similar rules for SEC-registered SBSEFs, the Commission seeks to obtain comparable
regulatory benefits as the CFTC while minimizing costs imposed on SEF/SBSEFs and their
19
members to the greatest extent practicable.
The Commission recognizes that an entity might elect to register as an SBSEF with the
SEC but not as a SEF with the CFTC. In such case, an SEC-only registrant would not have any
familiarity with the CFTC’s rules and would not have made any investments in systems, policies,
and procedures to comply with them. Nevertheless, because the Commission preliminarily
believes that most if not all entities that will seek SBSEF registration with the SEC are or will
also be registered as SEFs with the CFTC, such dual registrants would benefit from harmonized
rules. Furthermore, if the Commission adopts these rules substantially as proposed, it likely
would be unnecessary to establish and apply one set of rules for dual registrants and a different
set for SEC-only SBSEFs.
Proposed Regulation SE follows the basic structure of Part 37 of the CFTC’s rules. In
the CFTC’s rules, Subpart A of Part 37 (General Provisions) consists of §§ 37.1 to 37.12.
Subparts B to P of Part 37 implement the 15 Core Principles for SEFs set forth in the CEA and
consist of §§ 37.100 et seq. to 37.1500 et seq. Proposed Rules 800 to 817 of Regulation SE are
modelled on the “General Provisions” in Subpart A, while proposed Rules 818 to 831 would
implement the 14 Core Principles for SBSEFs set forth in the SEA. Proposed Rules 832 to 833
address cross-border matters that have no direct counterpart in the CFTC’s rules applicable to
SEFs. Proposed Rule 834 is designed to implement Section 765 of the Dodd-Frank Act, which
requires the Commission to adopt rules addressing conflicts of interest involving SBSEFs and
SBS exchanges, as well as to harmonize with certain of the CFTC’s governance rules. Proposed
Rule 835 is designed to facilitate reviews of final disciplinary actions, denials or conditioning of
membership, and denials or limitations of access by SBSEFs. In addition, the Commission is
20
proposing a new Subpart V to Part 249 of the Commission’s rules,
26 entitled “Forms for use by
security-based swap execution facilities,” that would include proposed § 249.2001, setting forth
Form SBSEF and its instructions, which would be used to register with the Commission as an
SBSEF; and proposed § 249.2002, setting forth the submission cover sheet (with instructions)
that would be required to accompany filings with the Commission made by SBSEFs for rule and
rule amendments, product listings, and determinations to make an SBS available to trade.
Many parts of proposed Rules 800 to 817 are very similar in substance to §§ 37.1 to
37.12. Other parts of proposed Rules 800 to 817 are derived from CFTC rules that are
referenced in Subpart A of Part 37 but located outside of Part 37. For example, § 37.4 is a short
rule entitled “Procedures for listing products and implementing rules.” § 37.4 does not itself lay
out the specific filing procedures for new products and new rules, but directs a SEF, after it has
registered with the CFTC, to make such filings pursuant to Part 40 (Provisions common to
registered entities27). Key rules in Part 40 include §§ 40.2 (Listing products for trading by
certification), 40.3 (Voluntary submission of new products for Commission review and
approval), 40.5 (Voluntary submission of rules for Commission review and approval), and 40.6
(Self-certification of rules).
To promote oversight of the SBS market and to assess that SBSEFs continue to operate in
a manner consistent with the SEA, the Commission preliminarily believes that it would be
appropriate to establish procedures whereby SBSEFs would submit filings to the Commission to
list SBS products and to establish new rules, and that it would be appropriate to harmonize with
 26 Part 249 is entitled “Forms, Securities Exchange Act of 1934.”
27 “Registered entity” is defined under the CEA to include a SEF. See 7 U.S.C 1a(40).
21
the procedures that the CFTC applies to SEFs. These procedures are well articulated and well
understood by SEFs, and appear to provide an effective process for establishing new rules and
listing products. Therefore, the Commission is proposing Rules 804, 805, 806, and 807 that are
closely modelled on relevant provisions of §§ 40.2, 40.3, 40.5, and 40.6, respectively. To
implement such rules for SBSEFs and the SBS market, the Commission identifies only those
parts of the CFTC rules that are most germane to the SBS market and adapts the wording
accordingly.
28 In the detailed discussions of each of these proposed rules, the Commission seeks
comment on whether its proposed rule is appropriately tailored for the SBS market, particularly
for dually registered SEF/SBSEFs that would be complying with substantially similar filing
procedures under CFTC rules, or whether the proposed rule incorporates a part of the CFTC rule
that is not relevant to the SBS market or should have incorporated additional or different
language that is more relevant.
Regulation SE includes proposed rules modelled on CFTC rules found in Parts 16, 36,
37, 40, 45, and elsewhere. In some cases, these disparate CFTC rules from outside Part 37 that
the Commission is proposing to adapt into Regulation SE use different terms than in Part 37 for
what appears to be the same concept. To promote uniformity within Regulation SE, the
Commission is proposing certain definitions for use throughout the regulation—in a dedicated
definitions rule, proposed Rule 802—that will sometimes require the replacement of a term used
in the CFTC version of a rule with a different, newly defined term in the proposed SEC
 28 Various provisions of Part 40 apply to entities other than SEFs or relate to trading of
products other than swaps. See, e.g., § 40.4 (Amendments to terms or conditions of
enumerated agricultural products); § 40.11 (Review of event contracts based upon certain
excluded commodities).
22
version.29 Any such changes in defined terms are noted below. Proposed Rule 802 also includes
terms derived from the SEA and certain SEC rules thereunder.
Part 37 of the CFTC’s rules includes an Appendix B, which sets out guidance and
acceptable practices for demonstrating compliance with several of the rules that implement the
Core Principles for SEFs. These provisions are, by their terms, non-binding.30 The Commission
preliminarily believes that all of the provisions of Regulation SE should be enforceable.
Therefore, the Commission is proposing to adapt some of the guidance and acceptable practices
found in Appendix B as proposed rule text in Regulation SE. As a result, some of the rules
proposed in Regulation SE are a blend of the CFTC rule text with language adapted from the
guidance and/or acceptable practices. Instances where this occurs in a particular rule will be
noted below. The Commission requests comment on its overall approach to incorporating
relevant portions of the Part 37 guidance and acceptable practices into Regulation SE, as well as
comment on how they are adapted in specific rules.
In various places in the CFTC’s SEF rules, the CFTC has delegated to its staff authority
to perform various functions relating to SEFs on the CFTC’s behalf. The Commission has not
 29 For example, certain CFTC rules that the Commission is proposing to adapt into
Regulation SE utilize the term “board of directors,” while other CFTC rules use the term
“governing board.” The Commission is proposing to use the term “governing board”
throughout Regulation SE and to define that term in proposed Rule 802(r) as the board of
directors of an SBSEF, or for an SBSEF whose organizational structure does not include
a board of directors, a body performing a function similar to a board of directors. This
definition is closely modelled on the definition of “board of directors” found in
§ 37.1501(a) of the CFTC’s rules.
30 See Appendix B to Part 37, introductory paragraph (1) (“The guidance for the core
principle is illustrative only of the types of matters a swap execution facility may address,
as applicable, and is not intended to be used as a mandatory checklist”).
23
adapted any of these provisions into proposed Regulation SE and is not proposing any
delegation-of-authority rules. The Commission may address delegations of its authority in the
adopting release for Regulation SE.
Finally, in developing this proposal, the Commission has consulted and coordinated with
the CFTC and the prudential regulators,31 in accordance with the consultation mandate of the
Dodd-Frank Act.32 The Commission also has consulted and coordinated with foreign regulatory
authorities through Commission staff participation in numerous bilateral and multilateral
discussions with foreign regulatory authorities addressing the regulation of OTC derivatives
markets.
33 Through these multilateral and bilateral discussions and the Commission staff’s
participation in various international task forces and working groups, the Commission has
gathered information about foreign regulatory reform efforts and their effect on and relationship
 31 The term “prudential regulator” is defined in Section 1a(39) of the CEA, 7 U.S.C. 1a(39),
and that definition is incorporated by reference in Section 3(a)(74) of the SEA, 15 U.S.C.
78c(a)(74).
32 Section 712(a)(2) of the Dodd-Frank Act provides in relevant part that the Commission
shall “consult and coordinate to the extent possible with the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission and the prudential regulators for the purposes of assuring regulatory
consistency and comparability, to the extent possible.” In addition, Section 752(a) of the
Dodd-Frank Act provides in relevant part that “[i]n order to promote effective and
consistent global regulation of swaps and security-based swaps, the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission, the Securities and Exchange Commission, and the prudential
regulators . . . as appropriate, shall consult and coordinate with foreign regulatory
authorities on the establishment of consistent international standards with respect to the
regulation (including fees) of swaps.”
33 The Commission participates in a number of international bodies working on OTC
derivatives reforms. For example, the Commission is a member of the International
Organization of Securities Commissions (“IOSCO”) and the Commission staff
participates on IOSCO’s Committee on Derivatives. In addition, the Commission is a
member of the Regulatory Oversight Committee, which serves as the international
standard-setter for data elements and identifiers used in the reporting of OTC derivatives
transactions.
24
with the U.S. regulatory regime. The Commission has taken and will continue to take these
discussions into consideration in developing rules, forms, and interpretations for implementing
Title VII of the Dodd-Frank Act.
IV. Introductory provisions of Regulation SE
A. Rule 800—Scope
Proposed Rule 800 is based § 37.1 of the CFTC’s rules, which provides that Part 37
applies to every SEF that is registered or applying to become registered as a SEF under Section
5h of the CEA. § 37.1 further provides that the rule does not affect the eligibility of SEFs to
operate under the provisions of Part 38 or 49 of the CFTC’s rules.
Proposed Rule 800 would provide that the provisions of Regulation SE would apply to
every SBSEF that is registered or is applying to become registered as an SBSEF under Section
3D of the SEA.
B. Rule 801—Applicable provisions
Proposed Rule 801 is based on § 37.2 of the CFTC’s rules, which provides that a SEF
shall comply with the requirements of Part 37 and all other applicable CFTC regulations,
including § 1.60 and Part 9, and including any related definitions and cross-referenced sections.
Proposed Rule 801 would require an SBSEF to comply with the requirements of Regulation SE
and all other applicable Commission rules, including any related definitions and cross-referenced
sections.
C. Rule 802—Definitions
Proposed Rule 802 would set forth definitions of terms that are used in multiple rules in
proposed Regulation SE. The majority of such terms are adapted from a CFTC rule. Other
25
terms are taken from Section 3 of the SEA34 or from a Commission rule under the SEA. Where
appropriate, the definition is discussed below in the context of the proposed rule where it is used.
In particular, paragraph (w) of proposed Rule 802 which would define the term “securitybased swap execution facility” by cross-referencing the definition of that term provided in
Section 3(a)(77) of the SEA,35 but with one carve-out. An entity that is registered with the
Commission as a clearing agency pursuant to Section 17A of the SEA36 and limits its SBSEF
functions to operation of a trading session that is designed to further the accuracy of end-of-day
valuations would be exempt from the definition of “security-based swap execution facility.”
This provision would codify a series of exemptions granted by the Commission to SBS clearing
agencies that operate “forced trading” sessions.37 As part of the clearing and risk management

34 15 U.S.C. 78c.
35 15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(77).
36 15 U.S.C. 78q-1.
37 See, e.g., Order Granting Temporary Exemptions Under the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 in Connection With Request on Behalf of ICE U.S. Trust LLC Related to Central
Clearing of Credit Default Swaps, and Request for Comments, SEA Release No. 59527
(March 6, 2009), 74 FR 10791, 10796 (March 12, 2009) (providing, inter alia, an
exemption from Sections 5 and 6 of the SEA because “ICE Trust will periodically require
ICE Trust Participants to execute certain CDS trades at the applicable end-of-day
settlement price. Requiring ICE Trust Participants to trade CDS periodically in this
manner is designed to help ensure that such submitted prices reflect each ICE Trust
Participant’s best assessment of the value of each of its open positions in Cleared CDS on
a daily basis, thereby reducing risk by allowing ICE Trust to impose appropriate margin
requirements”); Order Extending and Modifying Temporary Exemptions Under the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 in Connection With Request of Chicago Mercantile
Exchange Inc. Related to Central Clearing of Credit Default Swaps, and Request for
Comments, SEA Release No. 61164 (December 14, 2009), 74 FR 67258, 67262
(December 18, 2009) (providing, inter alia, an exemption from Sections 5 and 6 of the
SEA because, “[a]s part of the CDS clearing process, CME will periodically require CDS
clearing members to trade at prices generated by their indicative settlement prices where
26
process, an SBS clearing agency must establish an end-of-day valuation for any SBS in which
any of its members has a cleared position and will calculate margin based on that variation.
Certain SBS clearing agencies utilize a valuation mechanism whereby they require clearing
members to submit indicative quotes for those SBS products, and can require them to trade as a
way to promote accurate quote submissions. The precise means by which the clearing agency
matches quotes from different clearing members could cause the clearing agency to fall within
the SEA definition of “exchange.” The Commission previously has found that it was necessary
or appropriate in the public interest and consistent with the protection of investors to exempt
clearing agencies that engage in this activity from the definition of “exchange.”38 The
Commission is now proposing to codify this exemption with respect to the both exchange and
SBSEF registration.
The Commission preliminarily believes that it is necessary or appropriate in the public
interest, and is consistent with the protection of investors, to exempt a registered clearing agency
from the definition of “security-based swap execution facility” that utilizes a forced trading
functionality for SBS. Such an entity would continue to be registered as a clearing agency and
subject to the requirements of Section 17A of the SEA. Furthermore, a registered clearing
agency is a self-regulatory organization (“SRO”); therefore, all of its rules—including those
governing the forced trading session—would have to be submitted to the Commission pursuant
to Section 19 of the SEA. The Commission preliminarily believes, therefore, that codification of
the exemption from the definitions of “exchange” and “security-based swap execution facility”

those indicative settlement prices generate crossed bids and offers, pursuant to CME’s
price quality auction methodology”).
38 See id.
27
would preserve the status quo and eliminate a largely duplicative and unnecessary set of
regulatory requirements. This exemption would cover only the forced-trading functionality of an
SBS clearing agency; any other exchange or SBSEF activity in which a clearing agency might
engage could subject the clearing agency to the SEA provisions and the Commission’s rules
thereunder applying to exchanges or SBSEFs.
The Commission seeks comment on the following:
11. Do you believe that any definitions in proposed Rule 802 should be revised or
clarified? If so, please indicate which one(s) and provide any suggested revisions or
clarifications.
12. Are there any terms used in proposed Regulation SE that are not defined in proposed
Rule 802 but which you believe should be defined? If so, which term(s) and how
would you define them?
13. Do you agree with the proposed definition of “security-based swap execution
facility”? In particular, do you believe that registered clearing agencies that operate
forced trading sessions for SBS should be exempted from the definition of “securitybased swap execution facility” entirely? Or do you believe instead that such entities
should fall within the definition of “security-based swap execution facility” but be
exempted from some or all registration and regulatory requirements that otherwise
would apply to SBSEFs? Why?
V. Registration of SBSEFs
28
Section 3D(a)(1) of the SEA39 provides that no person may operate a facility for the
trading or processing of SBS40 unless the facility is registered as an SBSEF or as a national
securities exchange. After issuing the 2011 SBSEF Proposal, the Commission granted
temporary exemptions pursuant to Section 36(a)(1) of the SEA41 to entities that meet the
definition of “security-based swap execution facility” from having to register with the
Commission as an SBSEF or national securities exchange (“Temporary SBSEF Exemptions”).42
The Temporary SBSEF Exemptions will expire on the compliance date for the Commission’s
final SBSEF rules.43
 39 15 U.S.C. 78c-4(a)(1).
40 The term “security-based swap” is defined in Section 3(a)(68) of the SEA, 15 U.S.C.
78c(a)(68), to include, among other things, a swap that is based on a single security or
loan, including any interest therein or on the value thereof. A single security could
include, for example, a cash equity, a crypto/digital asset security, or a security option.
41 15 U.S.C. 78mm(a)(1).
42 See SEA Release No. 64678 (June 15, 2011), 76 FR 36287 (June 22, 2011) (temporarily
exempting entities that meet the definition of “security-based swap execution facility”
from the requirement to register with the Commission as an SBSEF) (“June 2011
Exemptive Order”); SEA Release No. 64795 (July 1, 2011), 76 FR 39927 (July 7, 2011)
(temporarily exempting entities that meet the definition of “security-based swap
execution facility” from exchange registration and other requirements of Sections 5 and 6
of the SEA) (“July 2011 Exemptive Order”). An entity that meets the definition of
“security-based swap execution facility” is required to register as an SBSEF under
Section 3D of the SEA or as an exchange under Sections 5 and 6 of the SEA. But
because the Commission has not yet adopted final rules relating to SBSEFs, such entities
cannot yet register with the Commission as SBSEFs. The Temporary SBSEF
Exemptions allow such entities to continue trading SBS without needing to register either
as SBSEFs or national securities exchanges before the compliance date of the SBSEF
registration rules.
43 See June 2011 Exemptive Order, 76 FR at 36293, 36306; July 2011 Exemptive Order, 76
FR at 39934, 39939. The July 2011 Exemptive Order also provided an exemption from
the broker registration requirements of Section 15(a)(1) of the SEA, 15 U.S.C. 78o(a)(1),
and other requirements of the SEA and the Commission’s rules thereunder that apply to a
29
A. Rule 803—Requirements and procedures for registration
Rule 803 of Regulation SE is closely modelled on § 37.3 of the CFTC’s rules and would
set forth a process for registration with the Commission as an SBSEF.
§ 37.3(a)(1) provides that any person operating a facility that offers a trading system or
platform in which more than one market participant has the ability to execute or trade swaps with
more than one other market participant on the system or platform shall register the facility as a
swap execution facility under this part or as a designated contract market (“DCM”) under part 38
of this chapter. Paragraph (a)(1) of proposed Rule 803 would track the language of § 37.3(a)(1)
closely, except that a person meeting these criteria would be directed to register the facility under
relevant provisions of the SEA rather than the CEA (i.e., to register as an SBSEF under proposed
Rule 803 or as a national securities exchange pursuant to Section 6 of the SEA).
A person that registers with the Commission as a national securities exchange pursuant to
Section 6 of the SEA does not fall within the statutory definition of “security-based swap
execution facility”44 and thus would not need to register as an SBSEF under proposed Rule 803.

broker, solely in connection with broker activities involving SBS (the “Broker
Exemptions”). The Broker Exemptions generally expired on October 6, 2021; however,
because an entity that meets the definition of “security-based swap execution facility”
also would also meet the definition of “broker” in Section 3(a)(4) of the SEA, 15 U.S.C.
78c(a)(4), the Commission extended the Broker Exemptions solely for persons acting as
an SBSEF until the expiration of the Temporary SBSEF Exemptions (i.e., the compliance
date for the Commission’s final SBSEF rules). See SEA Release No. 87005 (September
19, 2019), 84 FR 68550, 68602 (December 16, 2019).
44 See Section 3(a)(77) of the SEA, 15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(77) (defining “security-based swap
execution facility” as “a trading system or platform in which multiple participants have
the ability to execute or trade security-based swaps by accepting bids and offers made by
multiple participants in the facility or system, through any means of interstate commerce,
30
Furthermore, as discussed below,45 a person that registers as an SBSEF under proposed Rule 803
and provides a market place for no securities other than SBS would be exempt from the
definition of “exchange”46 and would not need to register as such pursuant to Section 6 of the
SEA. The SEA definitions of “exchange” and “security-based swap execution facility” overlap
substantially. The Commission preliminarily believes that it is appropriate to subject a trading
venue for SBS to only one regulatory regime. Thus, under proposed Regulation SE, if a trading
venue for SBS elects to register as a national securities exchange, it would not fall within the
statutory definition of “security-based swap execution facility” and would not have to register as
an SBSEF.
47 If a trading venue for SBS elects to register as an SBSEF under proposed Rule 803
and provides a market place for no securities other than SBS, it would not—pursuant to a
proposed amendment to Rule 3a1-1—fall within the statutory definition of “exchange” and
would not have to register as an exchange.
§ 37.3(a)(2) of the CFTC’s rules sets out the minimum trading functionality that must be
offered by a SEF. A SEF must, at a minimum, offer an “order book.” § 37.3(a)(3) defines
“order book” to mean an electronic trading facility, as that term is defined in Section 1a(16) of

including any trading facility that . . . is not a national securities exchange” (emphasis
added).
45 See infra Section XII (discussing proposed paragraph (a)(4) of SEA Rule 3a1-1).
46 15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(1) (defining “exchange” as “any organization, association, or group of
persons, whether incorporated or unincorporated, which constitutes, maintains, or
provides a market place or facilities for bringing together purchasers and sellers of
securities or for otherwise performing with respect to securities the functions commonly
performed by a stock exchange as that term is generally understood, and includes the
market place and the market facilities maintained by such exchange”).
47 However, a national securities exchange could elect to operate an SBSEF and separately
register that SBSEF with the Commission. See Section 3D(c) of the SEA, 15 U.S.C.
78c-4(c); proposed Rule 814.
31
the CEA; a trading facility, as that term is defined in Section 1a(51) of the CEA; or a trading
system or platform in which all market participants in the trading system or platform have the
ability to enter multiple bids and offers, observe or receive bids and offers entered by other
market participants, and transact on such bids and offers.
Paragraph (a)(2) of proposed Rule 803, like § 37.3(a)(2), would require an SBSEF, at a
minimum, to offer an order book. The Commission is proposing, like § 37.3(a)(3), to define
“order book” in Rule 802 to mean an electronic trading facility, a trading facility, or a trading
system or platform in which all market participants in the trading system or platform have the
ability to enter multiple bids and offers, observe or receive bids and offers entered by other
market participants, and transact on such bids and offers. § 37.3(a)(3) defines “trading facility”
and “electronic trading facility” by cross-referencing definitions of those terms in the CEA.
Rather than cross-referencing the CEA, the Commission is proposing instead to adapt the CEA
definitions of those terms directly into Rule 802.48 The Commission preliminarily believes that it
should harmonize as closely as possible with the CFTC on foundational terms such as “trading
facility,” “electronic trading facility,” and “order book” because the CFTC’s reliance on these
terms over several years has created understanding of what type of functionality a SEF must
offer. The Commission seeks to avoid a scenario where differences with the CFTC regarding
these key definitions results in an entity’s functionality being allowed under one agency’s regime
but disallowed under the other’s.
Under § 37.3(a)(4), a SEF is not required to provide an order book for certain package

48 See proposed Rule 802(aa) (defining “trading facility”); proposed Rule 802(i) (defining
“electronic trading facility”).
32
transactions, although the SEF must provide an order book for a Required Transaction49 when
such Required Transaction is not executed as part of a package transaction. Paragraph (a)(3) of
proposed Rule 803 is closely modelled on § 37.3(a)(4) and would provide a narrow exception to
allow an SBSEF not to offer an order book for the SBS component(s) of a package transaction
that contains a mix of products that both are and are not subject to the trade execution
requirement.
Paragraph (b) of proposed Rule 803 is closely modelled on § 37.3(b) and would set out
procedures for full registration of an SBSEF. Paragraph (b)(1), like § 37.3(b)(1), would provide
that an applicant requesting registration must:
(i) File electronically a complete Form SBSEF or any successor forms, and all
information and documentation described in such forms with the Commission using the EDGAR
system as an Interactive Data File in accordance with Rule 405 of Regulation S-T; and
(ii) Provide to the Commission, upon the Commission’s request, any additional
information and documentation necessary to review an application.
Paragraph (b)(2) of proposed Rule 803, like § 37.3(b)(2), would provide that an applicant
requesting registration as an SBSEF must identify with particularity any information in the
application that will be subject to a request for confidential treatment pursuant to Rule 24b-2

49 As discussed below in Section VII(E), the Commission is proposing to incorporate into
Regulation SE the concepts of “Required Transaction” and “Permitted Transaction” in a
manner closely modelled on the CFTC’s use of those terms. A Required Transaction
would be a transaction involving an SBS that is subject to the trade execution
requirement.
33
under the SEA.50 Paragraph (b)(2) also would provide that, as set forth in proposed Rule 808,
certain information provided in an application shall be made publicly available.
Paragraph (b)(3) of proposed Rule 803 would address amendments to the SBSEF
registration application. Like § 37.3(b)(3), proposed Rule 803(b)(3) would provide that an
applicant amending a pending application or requesting an amendment to an order of registration
shall file an amended application electronically with the Commission using the EDGAR system
as an Interactive Data File in accordance with Rule 405 of Regulation S-T. Subsequent to being
registered, an SBSEF would be required to submit rule and product filings under Rule 806 or
807, as well as provide other updates as may be required pursuant to other rules for SBSEFs.
Paragraph (b)(4) of proposed Rule 803 would address the effect of an incomplete
application. Like § 37.3(b)(4), proposed Rule 803(b)(4) would provide that, if an application is
incomplete, the Commission shall notify the applicant that its application will not be deemed to
have been submitted for purposes of the Commission’s review.
Paragraph (b)(5) of proposed Rule 803 would establish the Commission review period for
an application to register as an SBSEF. Proposed Rule 803(b)(5) is closely modelled on
§ 37.3(b)(5) and would require the Commission to approve or deny an application for
registration as an SBSEF within 180 days of the filing of the application. Proposed Rule

50 § 37.3(b)(2), like many other provisions in the CFTC’s SEF rules, states that a request for
confidential treatment for parts of a required filing shall be made pursuant to § 145.9 of
the CFTC’s rules,which contains the CFTC’s substantive requirements for requests for
confidential treatment. Rather than adapting § 145.9 into proposed Regulation SE, the
Commission instead is proposing that confidential treatment requests arising from SBSEF
matters would be made and adjudicated pursuant to SEA Rule 24b-2, 17 CFR 240.24b-2.
The Commission preliminarily believes that it is not necessary or appropriate to establish
and utilize one set of procedures to handle confidential treatment requests made by
SBSEFs while utilizing a different set of procedures for all other persons who request
confidential treatment from the Commission under the SEA.
34
803(b)(5) would further provide that, if the Commission notifies the person that its application is
materially incomplete and specifies the deficiencies in the application, the running of the 180-
day period would be stayed from the time of such notification until the application is resubmitted
in completed form. In such case, the Commission would have not less than 60 days to approve
or deny the application from the time the application is resubmitted in completed form.
Paragraph (b)(6)(i) of proposed Rule 803, like § 37.3(b)(6)(i), would provide that
the Commission shall issue an order granting registration upon a Commission determination, in
its own discretion, that the applicant has demonstrated compliance with the SEA and the
Commission’s rules applicable to SBSEFs. Paragraph (b)(6)(i) would allow the Commission to
issue an order granting registration, subject to conditions. Paragraph (b)(6)(ii) of proposed Rule
803, modelled on § 37.3(b)(6)(ii), would provide that the Commission may issue an order
denying registration upon a Commission determination, in its own discretion, that the applicant
has not demonstrated compliance with the SEA and the Commission’s rules applicable to
SBSEFs. If the Commission denies an application under proposed Rule 803(b)(6)(ii), it would
be required to specify the grounds for the denial.
Paragraph (c) of § 37.3, which allows the CFTC to grant SEFs temporary registration
under certain conditions, was adopted with a sunset provision that generally terminated the
applicability of the paragraph two years after it became effective in August 2013.51 Because this
provision is now obsolete, the Commission is not proposing an equivalent provision in

51 See § 37.3(c)(5). Notwithstanding the general sunset provision, SEFs that applied for
temporary registration before the termination date were permitted to continue operating if
they had not yet been either granted or denied full registration by that date. See id.
35
Regulation SE.
Paragraph (c) of proposed Rule 803, like § 37.3(d), would address reinstatement of a
dormant registration. Proposed Rule 803(c) would provide that a dormant SBSEF52 may
reinstate its registration under the procedures of proposed Rule 803(b). Proposed Rule 803(c)
would further provide that the applicant may rely upon previously submitted materials if such
materials accurately describe the dormant SBSEF’s conditions at the time that it applies for
reinstatement of its registration.
Paragraph (d) of proposed Rule 803, like § 37.3(e), would set out procedures for an
SBSEF to request a transfer of registration. Paragraph (d)(1), which is closely modelled on
§ 37.3(e)(1), would provide that an SBSEF seeking to transfer its registration from its current
legal entity to a new legal entity as a result of a corporate change shall file a request for approval
to transfer such registration with the Commission in the form and manner specified by
the Commission. Paragraph (d)(2), modelled on § 37.3(e)(2), would provide that a request for
transfer of registration shall be filed no later than three months prior to the anticipated corporate
change; or in the event that the SBSEF could not have known of the anticipated change three
months prior to the anticipated change, as soon as it knows of such change.
Paragraph (d)(3) of proposed Rule 803, like § 37.3(e)(3), would require an SBSEF’s

52 See proposed Rule 802(g) (defining “dormant security-based swap execution facility” to
mean “a security-based swap execution facility on which no trading has occurred for the
previous 12 consecutive calendar months; provided, however, that no security-based
swap execution facility shall be considered to be a dormant security-based swap
execution facility if its initial and original Commission order of registration was issued
within the preceding 36 consecutive calendar months”). This proposed definition is
modelled on the definition of “dormant swap execution facility” found in § 40.1(f).
36
request for transfer of registration to include the following:
(i) The underlying agreement that governs the corporate change;
(ii) A description of the corporate change, including the reason for the change and its
impact on the SBSEF, including its governance and operations, and its impact on the rights and
obligations of members;53
(iii) A discussion of the transferee’s ability to comply with the SEA, including the core
principles applicable to SBSEFs and the Commission’s rules thereunder;
(iv) The governing documents of the transferee, including, but not limited to, articles of
incorporation and bylaws;
(v) The transferee’s rules marked to show changes from the current rules of the SBSEF;
(vi) A representation by the transferee that it:
(A) Will be the surviving entity and successor-in-interest to the transferor SBSEF and
will retain and assume, without limitation, all of the assets and liabilities of the transferor;
(B) Will assume responsibility for complying with all applicable provisions of the SEA
and the Commission’s rules thereunder;
(C) Will assume, maintain, and enforce all rules implementing and complying with the
core principles applicable to SBSEFs, including the adoption of the transferor’s rulebook, as

53 Here, and at several other places in § 37.3(e)(3), the CFTC uses the term “market
participants” rather than “members.” However, there are other places in the CFTC’s
rules that are being adapted by the Commission into proposed Regulation SE that use the
term “member” synonymously with “market participant.” When the context suggests that
a rule is addressing participants of a particular SBSEF market, rather than market
participants in the abstract, the Commission is proposing to use the term “member”
throughout Regulation SE.
37
amended in the request, and that any such amendments will be submitted to the Commission
pursuant to proposed Rules 806 or 807;
(D) Will comply with all regulatory responsibilities54 except if otherwise indicated in the
request, and will maintain and enforce all regulatory programs; and
(E) Will notify members of all changes to the transferor’s rulebook prior to the transfer
and will further notify members of the concurrent transfer of the registration to the transferee
upon Commission approval and issuance of an order permitting this transfer.
(vii) A representation by the transferee that upon the transfer:
(A) It will assume responsibility for and maintain compliance with core principles for all
SBS previously made available for trading through the transferor, whether by certification or
approval; and
(B) None of the proposed rule changes will affect the rights and obligations of any
member.
Paragraph (d)(4) of proposed Rule 803, modelled on § 37.3(e)(4), would provide that,
upon review of a request for transfer of registration, the Commission, as soon as practicable,
shall issue an order either approving or denying the request.
Paragraph (e) of proposed Rule 803, like § 37.3(f), would provide that an applicant for
registration as an SBSEF may withdraw its application by filing a withdrawal request

54 The equivalent provision in § 37.3(e)(3)(vi)(D) requires a representation from the
transferee that it “[w]ill comply with all self-regulatory responsibilities except if
otherwise indicated in the request, and will maintain and enforce all self-regulatory
programs” (emphasis added). SBSEFs are not SROs under the SEA and therefore do not
have self-regulatory responsibilities or self-regulatory programs.
38
electronically with the Commission using the EDGAR system as an Interactive Data File in
accordance with Rule 405 of Regulation S-T.55 Proposed Rule 803(e) would further provide that
withdrawal of an application for registration shall not affect any action taken or to be taken by
the Commission based upon actions, activities, or events occurring during the time that the
application was pending with the Commission.
Paragraph (f) of proposed Rule 803, like § 37.3(g), would provide that an SBSEF may
request that its registration be vacated by filing a vacation request electronically with the
Commission using the EDGAR system and must be provided as an Interactive Data File in
accordance with Rule 405 of Regulation S-T at least 90 days prior to the date that the vacation is
requested to take effect. § 37.3(g) provides that a registration may be vacated under Section 7 of
the CEA. Since the Commission does not operate under the CEA, the Commission is proposing
to adapt relevant language from Section 7 of the CEA directly into proposed Rule 803(f). Thus,
proposed Rule 803(f) would continue as follows, with language taken from Section 7 italicized
and language taken from § 37.3(g) in regular text: “Upon receipt of such request, the
Commission shall promptly order the vacation to be effective upon the date named in the request
and send a copy of the request and its order to all other security-based swap execution facilities,
SBS exchanges, and registered clearing agencies that clear security-based swaps. Vacation of
registration shall not affect any action taken or to be taken by the Commission based upon
actions, activities, or events occurring during the time that the security-based swap execution
facility was registered by the Commission. From and after the date upon which the vacation

55 17 CFR 232.405. The proposed electronic filing requirement discussed above does not
appear in the CFTC version of this provision. The Commission is adding this
specification to implement the Inline XBRL and EDGAR electronic filing requirements
for certain documents required by proposed Regulation SE. See infra Section XV.
39
became effective the said security-based swap execution facility can thereafter be registered
again by applying to the Commission in the manner provided in paragraph (b) of this section for
an original application.”
The Commission seeks comment on the following:
14. Do you believe in general that the Commission should closely harmonize the rules for
SBSEF registration with the CFTC’s rules for SEF registration? Why or why not?
15. In particular, do you agree with the language that the Commission is proposing to
adapt from § 37.3 (Requirements and procedures for registration) into Rule 803? If
not, what language would you delete or revise, and why?
16. Do you believe that the Commission should harmonize the application procedures
and timeframes in proposed Rule 803 with § 37.3 of the CFTC’s rules? Why or why
not? Are there aspects of § 37.3 that you believe are not necessary or appropriate to
incorporate into Rule 803? If so, please describe. Are there different or additional
requirements that the Commission should include in Rule 803 that are not included in
§ 37.3? If so, please describe.
17. Do you believe that any provisions of § 37.3(c) relating to temporary registration are
still relevant and should be adapted into Rule 803? If so, which provisions and why?
18. Do you believe in general that proposed Rule 803 should include provisions relating
to vacation of an SBSEF registration? If so, do you agree with the specific language
adapted by the Commission from Section 7 of the CEA and § 37.3(g) into proposed
Rule 803(f)? If not, how would you revise that language?
B. Form SBSEF
As new § 249.2001, the Commission is proposing Form SBSEF, the application form for
40
an entity to register with the Commission as an SBSEF. The proposed form would also be used
for submitting any updates, corrections, or supplemental information to a pending application for
registration. Proposed Form SBSEF is closely modelled on the CFTC’s Form SEF for entities
that seek to register with the CFTC as SEFs, with only minor changes to remove the concept of
post-registration amendments, as the proposed rule would not require any amendments to Form
SBSEF post-registration. The exhibits being proposed along with Form SBSEF are very similar
to the exhibits in Form SEF. Like with Form SEF, each applicant submitting a Form SBSEF
would be required to provide the Commission with documents and descriptions pertaining to its
business organization, financial resources, and compliance program, including various
documents describing the applicant’s legal and financial status. An applicant would be required
to disclose any affiliates and provide a brief description of the nature of the affiliation, and
submit copies of any agreements between the SBSEF and third parties that would assist the
applicant in complying with its duties under the SEA. In addition, an applicant would be
required to demonstrate operational capability through documentation, including technical
manuals and third-party service provider agreements.
Under proposed Rule 803(b)(1), an applicant for SBSEF registration would be required to
complete Form SBSEF and provide, upon the Commission’s request, any additional necessary
information and documentation in order review the application. The determination as to when an
application submission is complete would be at the sole discretion of the Commission. The
Commission would review Form SBSEF and, at the conclusion of its review, by order either:
(i) grant registration; (ii) deny the application for registration; or (iii) grant registration subject to
certain conditions. After an applicant is granted registration, any updates or amendments to the
information contained in its Form SBSEF by an active SBSEF would be required to be submitted
41
as rules or rule amendments under proposed Rule 806 or 807 or as may be required by other
rules in Regulation SE.
The CFTC’s process for registering SEFs appears well understood by the industry and
well designed for being adapted to the SBS market. Therefore, the Commission is using the
CFTC’s process as a basis for its own process for registering SBSEFs. Assuming that most if not
all SBSEFs will be dually registered as SEFs, the Commission preliminarily believes that it is not
necessary to require the same registrant to provide relevant information in one manner to the
Commission if the CFTC requires it in a different manner.
The Commission seeks comment on the following:
19. Are there parts of Form SEF that you believe are not necessary or appropriate to
incorporate into Form SBSEF? If so, please describe.
20. Are there different or additional requirements that the Commission should include in
Form SBSEF that are not included in Form SEF? If so, please describe. What would
be the benefits and costs of requiring that information in Form SBSEF that is not
required by the CFTC in Form SEF?
C. Abbreviated registration procedures for CFTC-registered SEFs
Many of the entities that will seek registration with the Commission as SBSEFs are
already registered with the CFTC as SEFs. Entities that seek dual registration presumably see
efficiencies in utilizing the same systems, policies, and procedures to trade both swaps and SBS.
As noted throughout this release, the Commission seeks to harmonize the SBSEF regulatory
regime as closely as practicable with the CFTC’s SEF regulatory regime, achieving similar
regulatory benefits as the CFTC regime while imposing only marginal costs on dually-registered
SEF/SBSEFs and their members. If the Commission ultimately adopts SBSEF rules that are
42
closely harmonized with those of the CFTC, SEFs that seek dual registration with the SEC would
likely need to make only minor adjustments to their rules and trading procedures to support
trading of SBS in addition to the trading of swaps. The Commission preliminarily believes that
whether an entity is registered as a SEF and in good standing with the CFTC is relevant when
considering its application to register as an SBSEF, and that an abbreviated registration for
CFTC-registered SEFs is appropriate. Furthermore, the Commission is preliminarily considering
that, after adopting final rules establishing a registration process for SBSEFs, it could exercise its
exemptive authority under Section 36(a)(1) of the SEA56 to relax or eliminate entirely certain of
the registration requirements for entities that are already registered as SEFs with the CFTC.
The Commission seeks comment on the following:
21. Do you believe in general that the Commission should utilize its authority under
Section 36(a)(1) of the SEA to establish an abbreviated procedure for entities wishing
to register as SBSEFs that are already registered with the CFTC as SEFs? Why or
why not?
22. If so, what registration requirements should the Commission relax or eliminate
entirely for entities seeking dual registration?
VI. Rule and Product Filings by SBSEFs
Unlike Section 19(b) of the SEA,57 which sets out a process whereby national securities
exchanges and other SROs submit filings to the Commission to add, delete, or amend rules
(including rules to list products), Section 3D of the SEA58 does not set out an equivalent process
 56 15 U.S.C. 78mm(a)(1).
57 15 U.S.C. 78s(b).
58 15 U.S.C. 78c-4.
43
for SBSEFs. It can be expected, however, that an SBSEF will seek to change its rules over time
in order, for example, to implement new trading methodologies and to expand its product
offerings, with the intent to make its market more attractive to participants. The Commission
preliminarily believes, therefore, that some review process is necessary to assess whether such
changes to an SBSEF’s rules and product offerings are consistent with Section 3D of the SEA
and the Commission’s rules thereunder. The Commission preliminarily believes that the CFTC’s
filing procedures are an appropriate model on which to base its own filing procedures.
Furthermore, because of the likelihood that most if not all SBSEFs will be dually registered with
the CFTC as SEFs and that many rule changes for a dual registrant will affect both its SBS and
swap trading businesses, close harmonization with the CFTC’s filing procedures would allow a
dual registrant to make a similar filing to each agency, allowing each agency to carry out its
oversight functions while minimizing the burdens on dual registrants.
Parts 37 and 40 of the CFTC’s rules set out processes whereby SEFs may establish or
amend rules and list products. In short, these processes allow a SEF to voluntarily submit a rule,
rule amendment, or new product for CFTC review and approval, or to “self-certify” that a rule,
rule amendment, or new product meets applicable standards under the CEA and the CFTC’s
rules thereunder without obtaining CFTC approval, although the CFTC retains the ability, in
certain circumstances, to stay the self-certification for further review before it may become
effective. Using its general authority to impose any requirement on SBSEFs and to prescribe
rules governing the regulation of SBSEFs,59 the Commission is proposing to establish similar
 59 See 15 U.S.C. 78c-4(d)(1)(A)(ii) (requiring an SBSEF, to be registered and to maintain
registration, to comply with any requirement that the Commission may impose by rule or
regulation); 15 U.S.C. 78c-4(f) (directing the Commission to prescribe rules governing
the regulation of SBSEFs).
44
filing processes for registered SBSEFs in proposed Rules 804 to 810 of Regulation SE.
A. Rule 804—Listing products for trading by certification
Proposed Rule 804 is modelled on § 40.2 of the CFTC’s rules and would set forth
procedures by which an SBSEF may list a product via certification.
§ 40.2(a) specifies the filing requirements for DCMs and SEFs to certify a product for
listing. Paragraph (a) of proposed Rule 804 would adapt these requirements for SBSEFs, with
one exception, as explained in the next paragraph. Paragraph (a)(1) of proposed Rule 804 would
require an SBSEF to file its submission electronically with the Commission using the EDGAR
system as an Interactive Data File in accordance with Rule 405 of Regulation S-T.
Paragraph (a)(2) of proposed Rule 804 would provide that the Commission must receive
the submission by the open of business on the business day that is ten business days preceding
the product’s listing. By contrast, the parallel provision in § 40.2(a) provides that a DCM or SEF
must file the self-certification only one business day before listing the product.60 The
Commission preliminarily believes that a ten-business-day review period for self-certified SBS
products before they can be listed strikes a reasonable balance between allowing SBSEFs to
bring new products to market quickly while affording the Commission staff a reasonable period
in which to assess them prior to listing. The Commission is concerned that one business day
would not provide the SEC staff sufficient time to review a new product, especially a novel or
complex product that might be difficult to analyze. As discussed below, the Commission is
proposing that it could stay a product for reasons similar to those in the CFTC’s stay provision.

60 See § 40.2(a)(2) (one of the conditions for a valid self-certification of a product is that the
CFTC has received the submission by the open of business on the business day preceding
the product's listing).
45
If a product does warrant a stay, the Commission also would need sufficient time to go through
the administrative steps of formally issuing the stay. The proposed ten-business-day review
period for self-certified products accords with the CFTC’s ten-business-day review period for
self-certified rules,61 which the Commission is proposing to replicate in Rule 807(a)(3).62
Paragraph (a)(3) of proposed Rule 804 would require a self-certification to include:
(1) A copy of the submission cover sheet;63
(2) A copy of the product’s rules, including all rules related to its terms and conditions;
(3) The intended listing date;
(4) A certification by the SBSEF that the product to be listed complies with the SEA
and the Commission’s rules thereunder;
(5) A concise explanation and analysis of the product and its compliance with applicable
provisions of the SEA, including core principles, and the Commission’s rules thereunder. This
explanation and analysis shall either be accompanied by the documentation relied upon to
establish the basis for compliance with applicable law, or incorporate information contained in
such documentation, with appropriate citations to data sources;
(6) A certification that the SBSEF posted a notice of pending product certification with
the Commission and a copy of the submission, concurrent with the filing of a submission with

61 See § 40.6(a)(3) (one of the conditions for a valid self-certification of a rule or rule
amendment is that the CFTC has received the submission not later than the open of
business on the business day that is ten business days prior to the registered entity’s
implementation of the rule or rule amendment).
62 See infra Section VI(D).
63 The Commission is proposing, in new § 249.2002, a submission cover sheet (with
instructions) that is closely modelled on the CFTC’s submission cover sheet.
46
the Commission, on the SBSEF’s website;64 and
(7) A request for confidential treatment, if appropriate, as permitted pursuant to SEA
Rule 24b-2.65
Paragraph (b) of proposed Rule 804, modelled on § 40.2(b), would provide that, if
requested by Commission staff, an SBSEF shall provide any additional evidence, information, or
data that demonstrates that the SBS meets, initially or on a continuing basis, the requirements of
the SEA or the Commission’s rules or policies thereunder.
§ 40.2(c) provides that the CFTC may stay the listing of a contract pursuant to paragraph
(a) of this section during the pendency of CFTC proceedings for filing a false certification or
during the pendency of a petition to alter or amend the contract terms and conditions pursuant to
Section 8a(7) of the CEA. The SEA does not include the CEA’s provisions regarding altering or
amending the terms and conditions of an SBS listed by an SBSEF like the authority granted to
the CFTC with respect to products listed by SEFs, such that the Commission would be able to
stay the listing of an SBS that it believes may be inconsistent with the SEA, pending proceedings
to exercise that authority. Nor are proceedings for false certification of an SBS contemplated by
the SEA. For this reason, in lieu of harmonizing with § 40.2(c), the Commission is proposing, in

64 Under proposed Rule 804(a)(3)(vi), information that the SBSEF seeks to keep
confidential could be redacted from the documents published on the SBSEF’s website but
would have to be republished consistent with any determination made by the Commission
pursuant to SEA Rule 24b-2.
65 § 40.2(a)(3) instructs filers to make any request for confidential treatment pursuant to
§ 40.8 of the CFTC’s rules, which in turn cross-references § 145.9. The Commission is
proposing instead to direct filers to make any request for confidential treatment pursuant
to existing SEA Rule 24b-2. See supra note 50.
47
Rule 804(c), a provision that would allow the Commission to stay the certification of a new
product in the same manner that proposed Rule 807(c)—which, as described below, is itself
based on § 40.6(c) of the CFTC rules—would allow the Commission to stay the selfcertifications of a new rule or rule amendment.
66
Thus, paragraph (c)(1) of proposed Rule 804 would provide that the Commission may
stay the certification of a new product by issuing a notification informing the SBSEF that the
Commission is staying the certification on the grounds that the product presents novel or
complex issues that require additional time to analyze, is accompanied by an inadequate
explanation, or is potentially inconsistent with the SEA or the Commission’s rules thereunder.
Under paragraph (c)(1), the Commission would have an additional 90 days from the date of the
notification to conduct the review. Paragraph (c)(2) would require the Commission to provide a
30-day comment period during that 90 days, and to publish a notice of the 30-day comment
period on the Commission’s website. Comments from the public could be submitted as specified
in that notice. Paragraph (c)(3) would provide that the product that had been stayed would
become effective, pursuant to the certification, at the expiration of the 90-day review period,
unless the Commission withdraws the stay prior to that time, or the Commission notifies
the SBSEF during the 90-day time period that it objects to the proposed certification on the
grounds that the proposed product is inconsistent with the SEA or the Commission’s rules.

66 The Commission also is not proposing to adapt—either in Rule 807 or here in Rule
804—§ 40.6(c)(4), which relates to rules already implemented and permits the CFTC to
stay the effectiveness of such rules during the pendency of proceedings for filing a false
certification or of a petition to alter or amend the rule pursuant to Section 8a(7) of the
CEA.
48
Paragraph (d) of § 40.2 provides that a DCM or SEF may submit a class certification of
swaps based on an “excluded commodity,”67 subject to certain conditions. The proposed rules
do not provide for class certification of any SBS although, as noted below, the Commission
seeks commenters’ views on whether the concept of class certification would be appropriate for
SBSEFs.
The Commission preliminarily believes that proposed Regulation SE should allow
SBSEFs to introduce new SBS products to their market places as speedily as practicable while
affording the Commission an effective mechanism to assess their consistency with Section 3D of
the SEA. The Commission preliminarily believes that the CFTC’s self-certification procedures
are well articulated and well understood by SEFs, and that harmonizing with these procedures
for new product filings by SBSEF would yield comparable regulatory benefits while minimizing
burdens on SBSEFs. At the same time, the Commission preliminarily believes that, for the
reasons noted above, a ten-business-day pre-listing review period is more appropriate than a onebusiness-day review period for self-certified SBS products.
The Commission seeks comment on the following:
23. Do you believe in general that Regulation SE should include a rule that allows
SBSEFs to list products for trading by certification? Why or why not?
24. In particular, should the Commission establish a procedure for listing SBS products
for trading by certification by harmonizing closely with § 40.2 of the CFTC’s rules?
Why or why not?
25. Do you agree with the ten-business-day pre-listing review period for self-certified
 67 See Section 1a(19) of the CEA, 7 U.S.C. § 1a(19) (defining “excluded commodity”).
49
products in proposed Rule 804(a)(2) instead of the CFTC’s one-business-day review
period? Why or why not? What economic harm might an SBSEF and/or its members
suffer if the Commission ultimately adopted a review period other than one business
day? If you believe that the Commission should adopt a review period of greater than
one day (but other than ten), please explain.
26. Do you believe that the Commission should adapt the concept of class certification
from § 40.2(d) into proposed Rule 804? Why or why not? If so, how do you believe
a “class” should be defined for purposes of listing SBS products on an SBSEF?
Should there be any conditions for class certification? If so, what conditions and
why?
27. Are there any provisions of proposed Rule 804 that the Commission has adapted from
§ 40.2 that you believe would be inappropriate, or would not create any benefit, in a
Commission rule to establish procedures for SBSEFs to list SBS products for trading
by certification? If so, please identify any such provision, explain why it would be
inappropriate or unnecessary for SBSEFs, and what economic benefit that you believe
would result from omitting it from the Commission’s final rule.
28. Do you believe that proposed Rule 804(c), relating to stays of product certifications,
mirroring the Commission’s proposed provisions relating to stays of selfcertifications of new rules, is appropriate and workable? Why or why not? If not,
what alternatives, if any, should be considered to enable the Commission to stay
product certifications that it believes pose issues with respect to consistency with the
SEA?
B. Rule 805—Voluntary submission of new products for Commission review
50
and approval
Proposed Rule 805 is closely modelled on § 40.3 of the CFTC’s rules and would set forth
procedures by which an SBSEF may voluntarily submit new SBS products for Commission
review and approval.
§ 40.3(a) provides that a SEF or DCM may request the CFTC to approve a new or
dormant product prior to listing it for trading, and sets out the filing requirements. Paragraph (a)
of proposed Rule 805 would adapt these requirements for SBSEFs. First, an SBSEF would be
required to file its submission electronically with the Commission using the EDGAR system as
an Interactive Data File in accordance with Rule 405 of Regulation S-T. The filing also would
have to include a copy of the submission cover sheet, a copy of the rules that set forth the terms
and conditions of the SBS to be listed, and an explanation and analysis of the product and its
compliance with applicable provisions of the SEA, including the Core Principles and
the Commission’s rules thereunder.68 The submission also would have to describe any
agreements or contracts entered into with other parties that enable the SBSEF to carry out its
responsibilities.
Furthermore, paragraph (a) of proposed Rule 805, modelled on § 40.3(a), would require
the SBSEF to include, if requested by Commission staff, additional evidence, information, or
data demonstrating that the SBS meets, initially or on a continuing basis, the requirements of the
SEA, or other requirement for registration under the SEA, or the Commission’s rules or policies
thereunder. The SBSEF would be required to submit the requested information by the open of

68 This explanation and analysis would have to either be accompanied by the documentation
relied upon to establish the basis for compliance with the applicable law, or incorporate
information contained in such documentation, with appropriate citations to data sources.
51
business on the date that is two business days from the date of request by Commission staff, or at
the conclusion of such extended period agreed to by Commission staff after timely receipt of a
written request from the SBSEF. Paragraph (a) of proposed Rule 805, like § 40.3(a), would
permit the submitting SBSEF to include a request for confidential treatment regarding portions
of its application.69 Finally, paragraph (a) of proposed Rule 805, like § 40.3(a), would require
the SBSEF to certify that it posted a notice of its request for Commission approval of the new
product and a copy of the submission, concurrent with the filing of a submission with
the Commission, on the SBSEF’s website.70
Paragraph (a) of proposed Rule 805 would omit two provisions in § 40.3(a). First,
§ 40.3(a)(6) requires the submitting entity to include the certifications required in § 41.22 for
product approval of a commodity that is a security future or a security futures product, as defined
in Sections 1a(44) or 1a(45) of the CEA, respectively. The Commission is not adapting this
provision into proposed Regulation SE because it pertains to security futures and security futures
products, not to swaps or SBS. Second, § 40.3(a)(8) requires the submitting entity to include a
filing fee. The Commission is not proposing to charge SBSEFs filing fees for submitting new
product proposals.
Paragraph (b) of proposed Rule 805, like § 40.3(b), would provide that the Commission
shall approve a new product unless the terms and conditions of the product violate the SEA or

69 § 40.3(a), like § 40.2(a)(3), instructs filers to make any request for confidential treatment
pursuant to § 40.8 of the CFTC’s rules, which in turn cross-references § 145.9. As noted
previously, the Commission proposes instead to direct filers to make any request for
confidential treatment pursuant to SEA Rule 24b-2. See supra note 50.
70 Information that the SBSEF seeks to keep confidential could be redacted from the
documents published on the SBSEF’s website but would have to be republished
consistent with any determination made by the Commission pursuant to SEA Rule 24b-2.
52
the Commission’s rules thereunder.
Paragraph (c) of proposed Rule 805, modelled on § 40.3(c), would provide that a product
submitted for Commission approval under Rule 805 shall be deemed approved by the
Commission 45 days after receipt by the Commission, or at the conclusion of an extended period
as provided under proposed Rule 805(d), unless notified otherwise within the applicable period,
if the submission complies with the requirements of Rule 805(a) and the SBSEF does not amend
the terms or conditions of the product or supplement the request for approval, except as
requested by the Commission or for correction of typographical errors, renumbering, or other
non-substantive revisions, during that period. Paragraph (c) also would provide that any
voluntary, substantive amendment by the SBSEF would be treated as a new submission under
Rule 805.
Paragraph (d) of proposed Rule 805, modelled on § 40.3(d), would provide that the
Commission may extend the 45-day review period in paragraph (c) for an additional 45 days, if
the product raises novel or complex issues that require additional time to analyze, in which case
the Commission shall notify the SBSEF within the initial 45-day review period and briefly
describe the nature of the specific issue(s) for which additional time for review is required.
Paragraph (d) also would provide that the Commission may extend the 45-day review period for
any length of time to which the SBSEF agrees in writing.
Paragraph (e) of proposed Rule 805 would provide that the Commission, at any time
during its review, may notify the SBSEF that it will not, or is unable to, approve the product.
This notification would have to briefly specify the nature of the issues raised and the specific
provision of the SEA or the Commission’s rules thereunder, including the form or content
requirements of proposed Rule 805(a), that the product violates, appears to violate, or potentially
53
violates but which cannot be ascertained from the submission. Paragraph (f) of proposed Rule
805, like § 40.3(f), would provide that such notification of the Commission’s determination not
to approve a product does not prejudice the SBSEF from subsequently submitting a revised
version of the product for Commission approval, or from submitting the product as initially
proposed pursuant to a supplemented submission. Furthermore, such notification would be
presumptive evidence that the entity may not truthfully certify under proposed Rule 804 that the
same, or substantially the same, product does not violate the SEA or the Commission’s rules
thereunder.
The Commission preliminarily believes that it is reasonable and appropriate to
supplement the product certification procedures in proposed Rule 804 by also including in
Regulation SE, as proposed Rule 805, procedures for voluntary submission of new products for
Commission review and approval. The Commission preliminarily believes that providing this
approval process, as the CFTC does, can be valuable to an SBSEF seeking the Commission’s
concurrence that a new product is in compliance with the SEA prior to listing it. The
Commission preliminarily believes that the CFTC’s procedures in this regard are well articulated
and well understood by SEFs, and that closely harmonizing with these procedures would yield
comparable regulatory benefits while minimizing burdens on SBSEFs.71
 71 The Commission does not discount the possibility that an entity might elect to register as
an SBSEF with the SEC but not as a SEF with the CFTC. In such case, the SEC-only
registrant would not have any familiarity with the CFTC’s rules and filing procedures.
Nevertheless, because the Commission preliminarily believes that most if not all entities
that will seek SBSEF registration with the SEC are or will also be registered as SEFs with
the CFTC, such dual registrants would benefit from harmonized procedures.
Furthermore, if the Commission ultimately adopts these procedures substantially as
proposed, it likely would be unnecessary to establish and apply one set of procedures for
dual registrants and a different set for SEC-only SBSEFs.
54
The Commission requests comment on the following:
29. Do you believe in general that Regulation SE should include a rule setting forth
procedures for an SBSEF to voluntarily submit new SBS products for Commission
review and approval? Why or why not?
30. In particular, should the Commission adopt procedures for voluntary submission of
new SBS products for Commission review and approval by harmonizing closely with
§ 40.3 of the CFTC’s rules? Why or why not?
31. Are there any provisions of § 40.3 that are adapted into proposed Rule 805 that you
believe would be inappropriate, or would not create any benefit, in a Commission rule
applying to SBSEFs? If so, please identify any such provision, explain why it would
be inappropriate or unnecessary for SBSEFs, and what economic benefit that you
believe would result from omitting it from the Commission’s final rule.
C. Rule 806—Voluntary submission of rules for Commission review and
approval
Proposed Rule 806 is closely modelled on § 40.5 of the CFTC’s rules and would set forth
procedures by which an SBSEF may voluntarily submit rules, rule amendments, or dormant rules
for Commission review and approval.
§ 40.5(a) provides that a registered entity, including a SEF, may request that the CFTC
approve a new rule, rule amendment, or dormant rule and sets out the filing requirements.
Paragraph (a) of proposed Rule 805 would adapt these requirements for SBSEFs. First, an
SBSEF would be required to file its submission electronically with the Commission using the
EDGAR system as an Interactive Data File in accordance with Rule 405 of Regulation S-T. The
filing also would have to include a copy of the submission cover sheet and set forth the text of
55
the rule or rule amendment (in the case of a rule amendment, deletions and additions must be
indicated). Further, the SBSEF would be required to describe the proposed effective date of
the rule or rule amendment and any action taken or anticipated to be taken to adopt the
proposed rule by the SBSEF or by its governing board or by any committee thereof, and cite
the rules of the SBSEF that authorize the adoption of the proposed rule. The SBSEF also would
be required to provide an explanation and analysis of the operation, purpose, and effect of the
proposed rule or rule amendment and its compliance with applicable provisions of the SEA,
including the core principles relating to SBSEFs and the Commission’s rules thereunder, and, as
applicable, a description of the anticipated benefits to market participants or others, any potential
anticompetitive effects on market participants or others, and how the rule fits into the SBSEF’s
framework of regulation.
Moreover, the SBSEF would be required to provide additional information which may be
beneficial to the Commission in analyzing the new rule or rule amendment. If a proposed rule
affects, directly or indirectly, the application of any other rule of the SBSEF, the pertinent text of
any such rule would have to be set forth and the anticipated effect described. The SBSEF also
would be required to provide a brief explanation of any substantive opposing views expressed to
the SBSEF by governing board or committee members, members of the SBSEF, or market
participants that were not incorporated into the rule, or a statement that no such opposing views
were expressed.
The SBSEF could request confidential treatment for portions of its submission, as
permitted by SEA Rule 24b-2. Finally, the SBSEF would have to certify that it posted a notice
of the pending rule with the Commission and a copy of the submission, concurrent with the filing
56
of a submission with the Commission, on the SBSEF’s website.72
Paragraph (b) of proposed Rule 806, modelled on § 40.5(b), would provide that the
Commission shall approve a new rule or rule amendment unless the rule or rule amendment is
inconsistent with the SEA or the Commission’s rules thereunder. Paragraph (c) of proposed
Rule 806, like § 40.5(c), would provide that a rule or rule amendment submitted for Commission
approval under Rule 806 shall be deemed approved by the Commission 45 days after receipt by
the Commission, or at the conclusion of such extended period as provided under paragraph (d) of
this section, unless the SBSEF is notified otherwise within the applicable period, if the
submission complies with the requirements of proposed Rule 806(a) and the SBSEF does not
amend the proposed rule or supplemented the submission, except as requested by the
Commission, during the pendency of the review period, other than for correction of
typographical errors, renumbering, or other non-substantive revisions. Paragraph (c) also would
provide that any amendment or supplementation not requested by the Commission would be
treated as the submission of a new filing under Rule 806.
Paragraph (d) of proposed Rule 806, modelled on § 40.5(d), would provide that the
Commission may further extend the review period in paragraph (c) for an additional 45 days, if
the proposed rule or rule amendment raises novel or complex issues that require additional time
for review or is of major economic significance, the submission is incomplete, or the requestor
does not respond completely to Commission questions in a timely manner, in which case
the Commission shall notify the submitting SBSEF within the initial 45-day review period and

72 Information that the SBSEF seeks to keep confidential could be redacted from the
documents published on the SBSEF’s website, but would have to be republished
consistent with any determination made pursuant to SEA Rule 24b-2.
57
shall briefly describe the nature of the specific issues for which additional time for review shall
be required. Paragraph (d) also would allow an extension to which the SBSEF agrees in writing.
Paragraph (e) of proposed Rule 806, like § 40.5(e), would provide that, at any time
during its review, the Commission may notify the SBSEF that it will not, or is unable to, approve
the new rule or rule amendment. This notification would have to briefly specify the nature of the
issues raised and the specific provision of the SEA or the Commission’s rules thereunder,
including the form or content requirements of proposed Rule 806, with which the new rule or
rule amendment is inconsistent or appears to be inconsistent with the SEA or the Commission’s
rules thereunder. Paragraph (f) of proposed Rule 806, like § 40.5(f), would provide that such
notification to an SBSEF would not prevent the SBSEF from subsequently submitting a revised
version of the proposed rule or rule amendment for Commission review and approval or from
submitting the new rule or rule amendment as initially proposed in a supplemented submission.
Paragraph (f) would further provide that the revised submission would be reviewed without
prejudice. Finally, paragraph (f) would provide that such notification to an SBSEF of the
Commission’s determination not to approve a proposed rule or rule amendment shall be
presumptive evidence that the SBSEF may not truthfully certify the same, or substantially the
same, proposed rule or rule amendment under proposed Rule 807(a).
Paragraph (g) of proposed Rule 806, like § 40.5(g), would provide that, notwithstanding
Rule 806(c), changes to a proposed rule or a rule amendment, including changes to terms and
conditions of a product that are consistent with the SEA and the Commission’s rules thereunder,
may be approved by the Commission at such time and under such conditions as the Commission
shall specify in the written notification; provided, however, that the Commission may, at any
time, alter or revoke the applicability of such a notice to any particular product or rule
58
amendment.
The Commission preliminarily believes that Regulation SE should afford the
Commission a means for assessing whether SBSEF rules and rule amendments are consistent
with Section 3D of the SEA, and that it is appropriate to achieve this aim by aligning closely
with the CFTC’s process for voluntary rule-approval submission in § 40.5. The CFTC’s
procedures are well articulated and well understood by SEFs, and closely harmonizing with these
procedures should yield comparable regulatory benefits while minimizing burdens on SBSEFs.
As with the process for seeking Commission approval of new products, the Commission
preliminarily believes that providing a process for voluntarily seeking Commission approval of
rules, rule amendments, and dormant rules—as the CFTC does—can be valuable to an SBSEF
seeking the Commission’s concurrence that the rule change is consistent with the SEA prior to
implementing it. Moreover, for dually registered SEF/SBSEFs, it is likely that certain rules will
apply to member behavior generally—and not to one product market (e.g., swaps or SBS)
exclusively—and so will have to be filed with both the SEC and CFTC. Closely harmonizing
the SEC’s filing procedures with § 40.5 would allow dually registered entities to submit the same
(or substantially the same) filing to both agencies for review and approval. The Commission
preliminarily believes that it is not necessary to require SBSEFs to make a substantially different
type of filing to the SEC than to the CFTC for the same underlying rule.
The Commission seeks comment on the following:
32. Do you believe in general that Regulation SE should include a rule establishing
procedures for an SBSEF to voluntarily submit rules and rule amendments for
Commission review and approval? Why or why not?
33. In particular, should the Commission adopt procedures for voluntary submission of
59
rules and rule amendments for Commission review and approval by harmonizing
closely with § 40.5 of the CFTC’s rules? Why or why not?
34. Are there any provisions of § 40.5 that are adapted into proposed Rule 806 that you
believe would be inappropriate, or would not create any benefit, in a Commission rule
applying to SBSEFs? If so, please identify any such provision, explain why it would
be inappropriate or unnecessary for SBSEFs, and what economic benefit that you
believe would result from omitting it from the Commission’s final rule.
D. Rule 807— Self-certification of rules
Proposed Rule 807 is closely modelled on § 40.6 of the CFTC’s rules and would set forth
procedures by which an SBSEF may self-certify changes to its rules. Paragraph (a) of proposed
Rule 807, modelled on § 40.6(a), would set forth the conditions that an SBSEF must comply
with before implementing a rule or rule amendment via self-certification. Like § 40.6(a),
proposed Rule 807(a) would permit an SBSEF to implement a rule or rule amendment without
obtaining the Commission’s prior approval under Rule 806, but only if it “self-certifies” the rule
or rule amendment in compliance with the conditions set forth in Rule 807. Rule 807(a) also
would permit an SBSEF to self-certify a rule or rule amendment that the Commission had
previously approved under Rule 806, or that the SBSEF had previously self-certified under this
Rule 807, but that in the interim had become a dormant rule (i.e., unimplemented for 12
consecutive calendar months).73
 73 Also like § 40.6(a), proposed Rule 807(a) would include an exception that would allow
an SBSEF to implement a certain kind of rule without having to comply with the full set
of conditions set forth in paragraphs (a)(1) through (8) of proposed Rule 807, the details
of which are discussed below. Specifically, the exception would provide that, when
60
Paragraph (a)(1) of proposed Rule 807 would require the SBSEF to file its submission
electronically with the Commission using the EDGAR system as an Interactive Data File in
accordance with Rule 405 of Regulation S-T. Paragraph (a)(2) would require the SBSEF to
provide a certification that the SBSEF posted a notice of the self-certification with the
Commission and a copy of the submission, concurrent with the filing of a submission with
the Commission, on the SBSEF’s website.
74 Paragraph (a)(3) would provide that the
Commission must have received the submission not later than the open of business on the
business day that is ten business days before the SBSEF’s implementation of the rule or rule
amendment. Paragraph (a)(4) would provide that the SBSEF may not implement the rule or rule
amendment if the Commission has stayed it pursuant to proposed Rule 807(c), discussed below.
§ 40.6(a)(5) sets forth an additional condition that the rule or rule amendment is not a rule
or rule amendment of a DCM that materially changes a term or condition of a contract for future
delivery of an agricultural commodity enumerated in Section 1a(4) of the CEA or an option on
such a contract or commodity in a delivery month having open interest. Because this provision
applies to DCMs that trade contracts for future delivery of agricultural commodities, it is not

submitting a rule delisting or withdrawing the certification of a product with no open
interest, an SBSEF would be required only to meet the conditions of paragraphs (a)(1),
(a)(2), and (a)(6) of proposed Rule 807. The introductory language being proposed by
the Commission in paragraph (a) of proposed Rule 807 generally tracks the language of
§ 40.6(a), with slight changes for clarity. However, proposed Rule 807(a) would not
include an equivalent of the reference in § 40.6(a) to submissions under § 40.10, which
concerns only systemically important derivatives clearing organizations and thus are not
relevant to SBSEFs.
74 Information that the SBSEF seeks to keep confidential could be redacted from the
documents published on the SBSEF’s website but must be republished consistent with
any determination made pursuant to SEA Rule 24b-2.
61
germane to the SBS markets; therefore, the Commission is not adapting this condition into
proposed Rule 807.
§ 40.6(a)(6) sets out procedures for emergency rule certifications, which the Commission
is proposing to adapt into paragraph (a)(5) of Rule 807. Paragraph (a)(5)(i) would require a
new rule or rule amendment that establishes standards for responding to an emergency75 to be
submitted pursuant to Rule 807(a). Paragraph (a)(5)(ii) would provide that a rule or rule
amendment implemented under procedures of the governing board to respond to an emergency
shall, if practicable, be filed with the Commission prior to implementation or, if not practicable,
be filed with the Commission at the earliest possible time after implementation, but in no event
more than 24 hours after implementation. In addition, paragraph (a)(5)(ii) would provide that
any such submission be subject to the certification and stay provisions of proposed Rules 807(b)
and (c), described below.
Paragraph (a)(6) of proposed Rule 807, modelled on § 40.6(a)(7), would set out the
required elements for a rule submission under Rule 807. These requirements would include a
copy of the submission cover sheet (in the case of a rule or rule amendment that responds to
an emergency, “Emergency Rule Certification” should be noted in the description section of the

75 See § 40.1(h) (defining “emergency” as “any occurrence or circumstance that, in the
opinion of the governing board of a registered entity, or a person or persons duly
authorized to issue such an opinion on behalf of the governing board of a registered
entity under circumstances and pursuant to procedures that are specified by rule, requires
immediate action and threatens or may threaten such things as the fair and orderly trading
in, or the liquidation of or delivery pursuant to, any agreements, contracts, swaps or
transactions or the timely collection and payment of funds in connection with clearing
and settlement by a derivatives clearing organization”). The definition goes on to list a
series of circumstances that are deemed emergencies under the definition. The
Commission is proposing a definition of “emergency” in proposed Rule 802 that is
adapted from § 40.1(h).
62
submission cover sheet); the text of the rule (in the case of a rule amendment, deletions and
additions must be indicated); the date of intended implementation; a certification by the SBSEF
that the rule complies with the SEA and the Commission’s rules thereunder; a concise
explanation and analysis of the operation, purpose, and effect of the proposed rule or rule
amendment and its compliance with applicable provisions of the SEA, including Core Principles
relating to SBSEFs and the Commission’s rules thereunder; and a brief explanation of any
substantive opposing views expressed to the SBSEF by governing board or committee members,
members of the SBSEF, or market participants, that were not incorporated into the rule, or a
statement that no such opposing views were expressed. Paragraph (a)(6)(vii) also would permit
the SBSEF to request confidential treatment for portions of its submission.76
Paragraph (a)(7) of proposed Rule 807, like § 40.6(a)(8), would require an SBSEF to
provide, if requested by Commission staff, additional evidence, information, or data that may be
beneficial to the Commission in conducting a due diligence assessment of the filing and the
SBSEF’s compliance with any of the requirements of the SEA or the Commission’s rules or
policies thereunder.
Paragraph (b) of proposed Rule 807, modelled on § 40.6(b), would give the Commission
ten business days to review the new rule or rule amendment before it is deemed certified and can
be made effective, unless the Commission notifies the SBSEF during that ten-business-day
review period that it intends to issue a stay of the certification under proposed Rule 807(c).
Paragraph (c)(1) of proposed Rule 807, modelled on § 40.6(c)(1), would provide that the

76 § 40.6(a)(7)(vii) directs the submitting entity to follow the procedures in § 40.8 when
making a request for confidential treatment, which in turn cross-references § 145.9. As
noted previously, the Commission proposes instead to direct filers to make any request
for confidential treatment pursuant to SEA Rule 24b-2. See supra note 50.
63
Commission may stay the certification of a new rule or rule amendment by issuing a notification
informing the SBSEF that the Commission is staying the certification on the grounds that it
presents novel or complex issues that require additional time to analyze, is accompanied by an
inadequate explanation, or is potentially inconsistent with the SEA or the Commission’s rules
thereunder. In addition, paragraph (c)(1) would afford the Commission an additional 90 days
from the date of the notification to conduct the review.
Paragraph (c)(2) of proposed Rule 807, modelled on § 40.6(c)(2), would require the
Commission to provide a 30-day comment period within the 90-day period in which the stay is in
effect. The Commission would be required to publish a notice of the 30-day comment period on
the Commission’s internet website, and comments from the public could be submitted as
specified in that notice.
Paragraph (c)(3) of proposed Rule 807, modelled on § 40.6(c)(3), would provide that the
new rule or rule amendment subject to the stay shall become effective, pursuant to the
certification, at the expiration of the 90-day review period, unless the Commission withdraws the
stay prior to that time, or the Commission notifies the SBSEF during the 90-day period that it
objects to the proposed certification on the grounds that the proposed rule or rule amendment is
inconsistent with the SEA or the Commission’s rules thereunder.
§ 40.6(c)(4), relating to rules or rule amendments already implemented by a SEF (as
opposed to rules or rule amendments that are the subject of a new submission) provides: “The
Commission may stay the effectiveness of an implemented rule during the pendency of
Commission proceedings for filing a false certification or during the pendency of a petition to
alter or amend the rule pursuant to section 8a(7) of the Act. The decision to stay the
effectiveness of a rule in such circumstances shall not be delegable to any employee of the
64
Commission.” As previously noted,77 the SEA does not provide the Commission explicit
authority to alter or amend the terms and conditions of an SBS like the authority granted to the
CFTC with respect to swaps, and does not contemplate proceedings for a false certification.
Hence the Commission is not proposing a provision corresponding to § 40.6(c)(4).
78
§ 40.6(d) of the CFTC’s rules allows a registered entity to place certain rules or rule
amendments into effect even without a self-certification, if certain enumerated conditions are
met. Certain types of these rules or rule amendments must be disclosed on a “Weekly
Notification of Rule Amendments,” pursuant to §§ 40.6(d)(1) and (2), while others can be put
into effect without any notification to the CFTC at all, pursuant to § 40.6(d)(3). Paragraph (d) of
proposed Rule 807, modelled on § 40.6(d), would provide that certain kinds of rules or rule
amendments may be put into effect by an SBSEF without certification to the Commission if
similar enumerated conditions are met. Some would be subject to a Weekly Notification of Rule
Amendments, which is closely modelled on the CFTC notification; others would not be subject
to any notification requirement.
Under paragraph (d)(2) of proposed Rule 807, the following types of rules could be put
into effect by an SBSEF without self-certification, so long as they are disclosed on the Weekly
Notice of Rule Amendments:
• Non-substantive revisions. Corrections of typographical errors, renumbering, periodic
routine updates to identifying information about the SBSEF, and other such nonsubstantive revisions of a product’s terms and conditions that have no effect on the

77 See supra note 66 and accompanying text.
78 See id.
65
economic characteristics of the product;
• Fees. Fees or fee changes, other than fees or fee changes associated with market making
or trading incentive programs, that total $1.00 or more per contract, and are established
by an independent third party or are unrelated to delivery, trading, clearing, or dispute
resolution.
• Survey lists. Changes to lists of banks, brokers, dealers, or other entities that provide
price or cash market information to an independent third party and that are incorporated
by reference as product terms;
• Approved brands. Changes in lists of approved brands or markings pursuant to
previously certified or Commission approved standards or criteria;
• Trading months. The initial listing of trading months, which may qualify for
implementation without notice, within the currently established cycle of trading months;
or
• Minimum tick. Reductions in the minimum price fluctuation (or ‘tick’).
Under paragraph (d)(3)(ii) of proposed Rule 807, the following types of rules could be
put into effect by an SBSEF without self-certification and without having to be disclosed on the
Weekly Notice of Rule Amendments:
• Transfer of membership or ownership. Procedures and forms for the purchase, sale, or
transfer of membership or ownership, but not including qualifications for membership or
ownership, any right or obligation of membership or ownership, or dues or assessments;
• Administrative procedures. The organization and administrative procedures of governing
bodies such as a governing board, officers, and committees, but not voting requirements,
governing board, or committee composition requirements or procedures, decision-making
66
procedures, use or disclosure of material non-public information gained through the
performance of official duties, or requirements relating to conflicts of interest;
• Administration. The routine daily administration, direction, and control of employees,
requirements relating to gratuity and similar funds, but not guaranty, reserves, or similar
funds; declaration of holidays; and changes to facilities housing the market, trading floor,
or trading area;
• Standards of decorum. Standards of decorum or attire or similar provisions relating to
admission to the floor, badges, or visitors, but not the establishment of penalties for
violations of such rules;
• Fees. Fees or fee changes, other than fees or fee changes associated with market making
or trading incentive programs that are less than $1.00 or relate to matters such as dues,
badges, telecommunication services, booth space, real-time quotations, historical
information, publications, software licenses, or other matters that are administrative in
nature.
• Trading months. The initial listing of trading months which are within the currently
established cycle of trading months.
Paragraphs (d)(2) and (d)(3) of proposed Rule 807, which enumerate the types of rule and
rule amendments that an SBSEF could put into effect without a self-certification, are adapted
from the types of rules enumerated in §§ 40.6(d)(2) and (d)(3). However, the Commission is not
adapting into proposed Rules 807(d)(2) and (d)(3) the other types of rules enumerated in
67
§§ 40.6(d)(2) and (d)(3).
79
The Commission preliminarily believes that Regulation SE should afford the
Commission a mechanism to assess new SBSEF rules and rule amendments for consistency with
Section 3D of the SEA, and to permit SBSEFs to submit new rules and rule amendments using a
self-certification process closely aligned with the § 40.6. The CFTC’s procedures are well
articulated and well understood by SEFs, and closely harmonizing with these procedures should
yield comparable regulatory benefits while minimizing burdens on SBSEFs. It is likely that
certain rules of dually registered SEF/SBSEFs will apply to member behavior generally—and
not to one product market (e.g., swaps or SBS) exclusively—and so will have to be filed with
both the SEC and CFTC. Closely harmonizing the SEC’s filing procedures with the CFTC’s
would allow dually registered entities to submit the same (or substantially the same) filing to
both agencies for review. The Commission preliminarily believes that it is not necessary to
require SBSEFs to make a substantially different type of filing to the SEC than to the CFTC for
the same underlying rule.
The Commission requests comment on the following:
35. Do you believe in general that Regulation SE should include a rule establishing
procedures for an SBSEF to establish rules via self-certification? Why or why not?
36. In particular, should the Commission adopt procedures for self-certification of rules
by harmonizing closely with § 40.6 of the CFTC’s rules? Why or why not?
 79 These rules pertain to products that are only distantly related, if at all, to the types of
products that are likely to trade on SBSEFs. See § 40.6(d)(2)(ii) (delivery standards set
by third parties); § 40.6(d)(2)(iii) (index products); § 40.6(d)(2)(iv) (option contract
terms); § 40.6(d)(2)(viii) (delivery facilities and delivery service providers);
§ 40.6(d)(3)(ii)(F) (securities indexes); § 40.6(d)(3)(ii)(G) (option contract term).
68
37. Are there any provisions of § 40.6 that are adapted into proposed Rule 807 that you
believe would be inappropriate, or would not create any benefit, in a Commission rule
applying to SBSEFs? If so, please identify any such provision, explain why it would
be inappropriate or unnecessary for SBSEFs, and what economic benefit that you
believe would result from omitting it from the Commission’s final rule.
38. Do you disagree with the specific language that the Commission is proposing? If so,
what revisions to the language would you suggest?
39. Do you agree with the proposed list of the types of rules and rule amendments that the
Commission would allow an SBSEF to make effective without a self-certification?
Are there any types that you believe should be added to that list? If so, which types
and why? Are there any types that you believe should be removed from that list? If
so, which types and why?
E. Submission cover sheet and instructions
As new § 249.2002, the Commission is proposing a submission cover sheet and
instructions that an SBSEF would be required to use in conjunction with filings submitted
pursuant to proposed Rules 804 through 807, 809, and 816. These are modelled on the cover
sheet and instructions used by SEFs in conjunction with their analogous filings with the CFTC.
80
The same cover sheet and instructions would be used for a new rule, rule amendment, or
new product filing, with the SBSEF checking the appropriate box to indicate which of these
types the filing represents. The SBSEF also would be required to check boxes to indicate
 80 The CFTC cover sheet and instructions, found in Appendix D to Part 40 of the CFTC’s
rules, are designed for rule and product filings from a wider range of registered entities
than just SEFs, and thus include entries that are omitted from the Commission’s proposed
adaptation.
69
whether the submission was seeking approval by the Commission or whether it was being filed
as a certification by the SBSEF; and to identify the specific provision in the Commission’s rules
pursuant to which the filing was being submitted. The submission cover sheet also would
include a box that the SBSEF would check if it intends to submit a request for a joint
interpretation from the Commission and the CFTC regarding whether the product is a swap, an
SBS, or mixed swap pursuant to SEA Rule 3a68-2.
81 Finally, the cover sheet would include a
check box by which an SBSEF could indicate that it was requesting confidential treatment of
materials in the submission.
The cover sheet would divide the rules and rule amendment filings into two categories:
one for general rules of the SBSEF and the other for rules relating to the terms and conditions of
a product. Additional boxes would need to be checked if a filing under the terms-and-conditions
category concerned specifically a determination by the SBSEF that a particular SBS was now to
be considered MAT (“made-available-to-trade”);
82 or if the filing concerned the delisting of an
SBS with no open interest.83 The cover sheet would need to be used in conjunction with the
weekly notifications that SBSEFs would be required to file pursuant to Rule 807(d) for certain
changes that do not need to be approved or certified, as discussed above.
Paragraph (a) of the submission cover sheet instructions would provide that a properly
completed submission cover sheet must accompany all rule and product submissions submitted
 81 Proposed Rule 809 would provide that a product filing will be stayed or tolled, as
applicable, if such a request for a joint interpretation is made by the SBSEF, the SEC, or
the CFTC. See infra Section VI(G).
82 See infra Section VII(F).
83 See supra note 73.
70
electronically to the Commission by an SBSEF, using the EDGAR system and must be provided
as an Interactive Data File in accordance with Rule 405 of Regulation S-T. Per paragraph (a), a
properly completed submission cover sheet would include all of the following:
1. The name and platform ID of the SBSEF.84
2. The date of the filing.
3. An indication as to whether the filing is a new rule, rule amendment, or new product.
4. For rule filings, the rule number(s) being adopted or, in the case of rule amendments,
the number of the rule(s) being modified.
5. For rule or rule amendment filings, a description of the new rule or rule amendment,
including a discussion of its expected impact on the SBSEF, its members, and the overall market.
The instructions will state that the narrative should describe the substance of the submission with
enough specificity to characterize all material aspects of the filing.
Paragraph (b) of the proposed submission cover sheet instructions would state that a
 84 “Platform ID” is a term utilized in Regulation SBSR, 17 CFR 242.900 et seq., and means
the unique identification code (“UIC”) assigned to a platform on which an SBS is
executed. See 17 CFR 242.900(w). The term “platform” includes an SBSEF. See Rule
900(v), 17 CFR 242.900(v). A registered SBSEF is required by Rule 903(a) of
Regulation SBSR, 17 CFR 242.903(a), to use as its platform ID an identifier issued by an
internationally recognized standards-setting system (“IRSS”) if the IRSS meets
enumerated criteria and has therefore been recognized by the Commission pursuant to
Rule 903(a). This identification requirement stems from a registered SBSEF’s status as a
“participant” of a registered SDR under Rule 900(u), 17 CFR 242.900(u), because the
term “participant” includes a “platform,” as defined in Rule 900(v), 17 CFR 242.900(v),
that incurs reporting duties under Rule 901(a), 17 CFR 242.901(a). Currently, the Global
Legal Entity Identifier System (“GLEIS”) is the only IRSS that has been recognized by
the Commission under Rule 903(a). See Regulation SBSR—Reporting and Dissemination
of Security-Based Swap Information, SEA Release No. 74244 (February 11, 2015), 80 FR
14564, 14631-32 (March 19, 2015) (“Regulation SBSR Adopting Release I”). Therefore,
LEIs issued through the GLEIS are currently the only allowable platform IDs that may be
used by registered SBSEFs.
71
submission must comply with all applicable filing requirements for proposed rules, rule
amendments, or products, and that the filing of the submission cover sheet would not obviate the
SBSEF’s responsibility to comply with applicable filing requirements.
Paragraph (c) of the proposed submission cover sheet would state that checking the box
marked “confidential treatment requested” would not obviate the submitter’s responsibility to
comply with all applicable requirements for requesting confidential treatment under SEA Rule
24b-2 and would not substitute for notice or full compliance with such requirements.
The Commission contemplates establishing a system for electronic completion of the
cover sheet and attachment of the submissions required by proposed Rules 804, 805, 806, 807,
and 809, and will advise affected persons regarding its use by public announcement in advance
of the effective date of these rules.
The Commission seeks comment on the following:
40. Do you agree in general that the submission cover sheet and instructions for SBSEF
filings should be harmonized with the CFTC’s? Why or why not?
41. Do you agree with the specific language proposed in the cover sheet and instructions?
If not, how should the language be revised? Is there any information not included in
the proposed cover sheet and instructions that you believe should be included?
42. Do you agree with the requirement for an SBSEF to report its platform ID on the
cover sheet? Should the disclosure of standard identifiers such as the LEI, the
Financial Instrument Global Identifier (“FIGI”), and the Unique Product Identifier
(“UPI”) be included in an SBSEF’s other reporting obligations under the proposed
rules?
43. Are any of the instructions in the submission cover sheet unclear? If so, what matters
72
do you believe require clarification?
F. Rule 808—Availability of public information
§ 40.8 of the CFTC’s rules is entitled “Availability of public information.” § 40.8(a)
provides that any part of an application to register as a SEF (among other CFTC-registered
entities) that is not covered by a request for confidential treatment will be made publicly
available. § 40.8(a) also sets out the sections of an application to register as a SEF that shall be
made publicly available. § 40.8(c)85 provides that rule and new product filings by a SEF,
whether made under the self-certification procedures or pursuant to CFTC review and approval,
will be treated as public information unless accompanied by a request for confidential treatment.
§ 40.8(c) includes procedures for such requests for confidential treatment. § 40.8(d) provides
that CFTC staff will not consider confidential treatment requests for information that is required
to be made public under the CEA, and that the terms and conditions of a product submitted to the
CFTC shall be made publicly available at the time of submission.
Proposed Rule 808 is closely modelled on § 40.8. § 40.8(a) does not provide a list of the
exhibits required to be made public, but rather refers to a general description of items required to
be made public. For purposes of clarity and ease of reference, however, the Commission is
proposing to list the specific corresponding exhibits in proposed Rule 808 that would be made
publicly available. Therefore, paragraph (a) of proposed Rule 808 would provide that the
Commission shall make publicly available on its website the following parts of an application to
register as an SBSEF, unless confidential treatment is obtained pursuant to SEA Rule 24b-2: the
transmittal letter and first page of the application cover sheet; Exhibit C; Exhibit G; Exhibit L;

85 § 40.8(b) has no text and is marked “reserved.”
73
and Exhibit M.
Paragraph (b) of proposed Rule 808, adapted from § 40.8(c), would provide that the
Commission shall make publicly available on its website, unless confidential treatment is
obtained pursuant to SEA Rule 24b-2,86 an SBSEF’s filing of new products pursuant to the selfcertification procedures of proposed Rule 804, new products for Commission review and
approval pursuant to proposed Rule 805, new rules and rule amendments for Commission review
and approval pursuant to proposed Rule 806, and new rules and rule amendments pursuant to the
self-certification procedures of proposed Rule 807. Paragraph (c), adapted from § 40.8(d),
would provide that the terms and conditions of a product submitted to the Commission pursuant
to any of proposed Rules 804 through 807 shall be made publicly available at the time of
submission unless confidential treatment is obtained pursuant to SEA Rule 24b-2.
The Commission preliminarily believes that it would be appropriate to include in
proposed Regulation SE a rule similar to § 40.8 that would clarify how SBSEFs may request
confidential treatment for their filings, and what information contained in those filings would be
publicly available by the Commission. The Commission preliminarily believes that the items
enumerated in proposed Rule 808 are not of the type that typically would constitute confidential
information.
The Commission requests comment on the following:
44. Do you believe in general that Regulation SE should include a rule modelled on

86 An application for confidential treatment shall contain, among other things, a statement
of the grounds of objection referring to, and containing an analysis of, the applicable
exemption(s) from disclosure under the Freedom of Information Act, and a justification
of the period of time for which confidential treatment is sought. See 17 CFR
240.24b-2(b)(2)(ii).
74
§ 40.8? Why or why not?
45. In particular, do you agree with the specific language proposed by the Commission to
adapt § 40.8 into proposed Rule 808? If not, how would you revise that language?
46. Are there any provisions of § 40.8 that are adapted into proposed Rule 808 that you
believe would be inappropriate, or would not create any benefit, in a Commission rule
applying to SBSEFs? If so, please identify any such provision, explain why it would
be inappropriate or unnecessary for SBSEFs, and what economic benefit that you
believe would result from omitting it from the Commission’s final rule.
47. Do you prefer the Commission’s proposed approach of listing specific exhibits or the
CFTC’s approach of providing in the rule only a general description of items required
to be made public? If the former, are there any additional exhibits that you believe
should be enumerated in Rule 808 that should be made publicly available? If so,
which exhibits and why?
G. Rule 809—Staying of certification and tolling of review period pending
jurisdictional determination
§ 40.12 of the CFTC’s rules is entitled “Staying of certification and tolling of review
period pending jurisdictional determination” and reflects the process described in Section 718 of
the Dodd-Frank Act, which is entitled “Determining Status of Novel Derivative Products.”
Section 718 of the Dodd-Frank Act sets forth a mechanism for addressing a situation where a
person wishes to list or trade a novel derivative product that may have elements of both securities
and contracts of sale of a commodity for future delivery (or options on such contracts or options
on commodities)—i.e., it is unclear whether the product is a security under the jurisdiction of the
SEC or a future under the jurisdiction of the CFTC. Section 718(a) provides that the SEC or the
75
CFTC may request that the other agency issue a determination as to the classification of that
product, and Section 718(b) provides that the CFTC and SEC may petition for the judicial review
of any such determination. § 40.12 provides that if a SEF (among other registered entities)
certifies, submits for approval, or otherwise files a proposal to list or trade such a novel
derivative product, the product certification shall be stayed or the approval review period shall be
tolled until a final determination order is issued under Section 718.
Proposed Rule 809 is loosely modelled on § 40.12, but modified to focus on the products
and jurisdictional problems that are more likely to be relevant to SBSEFs. An SBSEF might
seek to list a product where it is unclear whether the product is a swap or an SBS. While Section
718 of the Dodd-Frank Act addresses situations where it is unclear if a product is a security or a
future, the SEC and the CFTC have adopted separate rules—SEA Rule 3a68-2 and § 1.8,
respectively—governing requests for interpretation regarding a product that might be an SBS, a
swap, or a mixed swap. Accordingly, the Commission believes that it would be appropriate for
proposed Rule 809 to reflect the process set forth in SEA Rule 3a68-2. Nonetheless, the
objective of proposed Rule 809 would be consistent with the objective of § 40.12—to provide for
a stay or tolling of a product filing where it is unclear whether the product is under the
jurisdiction of the SEC or the CFTC.
Paragraph (a) of proposed Rule 809, modelled on § 40.12(b), would provide that a
product certification made by an SBSEF pursuant to proposed Rule 804 shall be stayed, or the
review period for a product that has been submitted for Commission approval by an SBSEF
pursuant to proposed Rule 805 shall be tolled, upon request for a joint interpretation of whether
76
the product is a swap, SBS, or mixed swap made pursuant to Rule 3a68-2 under the SEA87 by the
SBSEF, the SEC, or the CFTC. Paragraph (b) is modelled on § 40.12(b)(1) and would require
the SEC to provide the SBSEF with a written notice of the stay or tolling pending issuance of a
joint interpretation by the SEC and CFTC. Paragraph (c) is modelled on § 40.12(b)(2) and
would provide that the stay shall be withdrawn, or the approval review period shall resume, if a
joint interpretation finding that the SEC has jurisdiction over the product is issued.
The Commission preliminarily believes that it is appropriate for Regulation SE to include
a mechanism for the staying or tolling of a filing by an SBSEF where it is unclear whether the
product is a swap or an SBS—should an SBSEF ever seek to list such a product. Although
proposed Rule 809 would deviate from § 40.12 in that it would apply where it is unclear whether
a product is swap or an SBS, rather than where it is unclear whether the product is a security or a
future, the Commission preliminarily believes that modifying the scope of proposed Rule 809, in
relation to § 40.12, would appropriately address the jurisdictional questions that are more likely
to arise from a product listed by an SBSEF.
The Commission seeks comment on the following:
48. Do you believe in general that Regulation SE should include a rule setting out a
procedure for staying a product certification or tolling a product review period if a
request for a joint interpretation regarding the classification of the product is made
pursuant to SEA Rule 3a68-2? Why or why not?
49. In particular, do you agree with the specific language proposed by the Commission to
adapt § 40.12 into proposed Rule 809? If not, how would you revise that language?

87 17 CFR 240.3a68-2.
77
50. Do you agree that Rule 809 should apply to a product that might be an SBS or a
swap, rather than to a product that might be a security or a future? Why or why not?
51. Are there any provisions of § 40.12 that are adapted into proposed Rule 809 that you
believe would be inappropriate, or would not create any benefit, in a Commission rule
applying to SBSEFs? If so, please identify any such provision, explain why it would
be inappropriate or unnecessary for SBSEFs, and what economic benefit that you
believe would result from omitting it from the Commission’s final rule.
H. Rule 810—Product filings by SBSEFs that are not yet registered and by
dormant SBSEFs
Part 37 directs SEFs to submit product filings via self-certification or for CFTC review
and approval, using § 40.2 or 40.3, respectively. However, these sections cannot be utilized by
an entity that has submitted an application for SEF registration but has not yet been registered, or
by a dormant SEF that has submitted an application to reinstate its registration. Under § 37.4,
either entity may submit a swap’s terms and conditions before being registered or having its
registration reinstated, and the CFTC will consider the swap listing request as part of the
application for registration or reinstatement, respectively.
Proposed Rule 810 is closely modelled on § 37.4. Paragraph (a) of proposed Rule 810 is
closely modelled on § 37.4(a) and would provide that an applicant for registration as an SBSEF
may submit an SBS’s terms and conditions prior to listing the product as part of its application
for registration. Paragraph (b) is closely modelled on § 37.4(b) and would provide that any SBS
terms and conditions or rules submitted as part of an application for registration shall be
considered for approval by the Commission at the time the Commission issues the SBSEF’s
order of registration. Paragraph (c) is closely modelled on § 37.4(c) and would provide that,
78
after the Commission issues the order of registration, the SBSEF shall submit an SBS’s terms
and conditions, including amendments to such terms and conditions, new rules, or rule
amendments pursuant to the procedures in proposed Rules 804 to 807. Paragraph (d) is closely
modelled on § 37.4(d), would provide that any SBS terms and conditions or rules submitted as
part of an application to reinstate the registration of a dormant SBSEF shall be considered for
approval by the Commission at the time the Commission approves the reinstatement of
registration of the dormant SBSEF.
The Commission preliminarily believes that it is appropriate for Regulation SE to include
provisions that address new products submitted as part of an SBSEF registration by an entity that
has not yet been registered, or by a dormant SBSEF seeking reinstatement of its registration, and
that these provisions should align with the CFTC’s provisions as closely as possible.
The Commission seeks comment on the following:
52. Do you believe in general that Regulation SE should include a rule setting out how
dormant SBSEFs and applicants for SBSEF registration can submit new products?
Why or why not?
53. In particular, do you agree with the specific language proposed by the Commission to
adapt § 37.4 into proposed Rule 810? If not, how would you revise that language?
54. Are there any provisions of § 37.4 that are adapted into proposed Rule 810 that you
believe would be inappropriate, or would not create any benefit, in a Commission rule
applying to SBSEFs? If so, please identify any such provision, explain why it would
be inappropriate or unnecessary for SBSEFs, and what economic benefit that you
believe would result from omitting it from the Commission’s final rule.
VII. Miscellaneous Requirements
79
§§ 37.5 to 37.12 of the CFTC’s rules impose miscellaneous requirements on SEFs. The
Commission seeks to impose similar requirements on SBSEFs in proposed Rules 811 to 817 of
Regulation SE.
A. Rule 811— Information relating to SBSEF compliance
1. Harmonization with § 37.5
Paragraphs (a) to (c) of proposed Rule 811 are modelled on § 37.5, which is entitled
“Information regarding swap execution facility compliance.” § 37.5 provides that the CFTC
may request various types of information from a SEF, and that the SEF must supply the
information to the CFTC in a form and manner specified by the CFTC. Paragraph (a) of § 37.5
requires a SEF, at the CFTC’s request, to provide information related to its business as a SEF.
Paragraph (b) states that a SEF may be required to provide a written demonstration, containing
supporting data, information, and documents that it is in compliance with one or more core
principles or with its other obligations under the CEA. Paragraph (c) sets out procedures for a
SEF to notify the CFTC of any transfer of 50% or more of the equity interest in the SEF.
Proposed Rules 811(a) to (c) are closely modelled on § 37.5. Paragraph (a) of proposed
Rule 811 is closely modelled on § 37.5(a) and would provide that, upon the Commission’s
request, an SBSEF shall file with the Commission information related to its business as an
SBSEF in the form and manner, and within the timeframe, specified by the Commission.
Paragraph (b) is closely modelled on § 37.5(b) and would provide that, upon the Commission’s
request, an SBSEF shall file with the Commission a written demonstration, containing
supporting data, information, and documents, that it is in compliance with one or more Core
Principles or with its other obligations under the SEA or the Commission’s rules thereunder, as
the Commission specifies in its request. Also under proposed Rule 811(b), the SBSEF would be
80
required to file such written demonstration in the form and manner, and within the timeframe,
specified by the Commission.
Paragraph (c)(1) of proposed Rule 811 is closely modelled on § 37.5(c)(1) and would
provide that an SBSEF shall file with the Commission a notification of any transaction involving
the direct or indirect transfer of 50% or more of the equity interest in the SBSEF. Also under
proposed Rule 811(c)(1), the Commission could, upon receiving such notification, request
supporting documentation of the transaction. Paragraph (c)(2) is closely modelled on
§ 37.5(c)(2) and would provide that the equity interest transfer notice shall be filed with the
Commission in a form and manner specified by the Commission at the earliest possible time, but
in no event later than the open of business ten business days following the date upon which the
SBSEF enters into a firm obligation to transfer the equity interest. Paragraph (c)(3) is closely
modelled on § 37.5(c)(3), would provide that, notwithstanding the foregoing, if any aspect of an
equity interest transfer requires an SBSEF to file a rule, the SBSEF shall comply with the
applicable rule filing requirements of proposed Rule 806 or 807.
Paragraph (c)(4) of proposed Rule 811 is closely modelled on § 37.5(c)(4) and would
provide that, upon a transfer of an equity interest of 50% or more in an SBSEF, the SBSEF shall
file with the Commission, in a form and manner specified by the Commission, a certification that
the SBSEF meets all of the requirements of Section 3D of the SEA and the Commission rules
thereunder, no later than two business days following the date on which the equity interest of
50% or more was acquired.
The Commission preliminarily believes that it is appropriate for Regulation SE to include
provisions requiring an SBSEF to provide the Commission with the information described
above. Information about its business as an SBSEF and transfers of 50% of its equity would
81
promote understanding of its operations and ownership, which should facilitate oversight of the
SBSEF; therefore, the Commission preliminarily believes that it should, similar to the CFTC,
clarify that it may request such information from an SBSEF. In addition, should questions about
compliance arise, the Commission should be able to obtain from an SBSEF supporting data,
information, and documents that the SBSEF is in compliance with relevant obligations under the
SEA. By modelling its proposed requirements on existing CFTC rules, the Commission seeks to
obtain comparable regulatory benefits while imposing only marginal additional burdens on
dually registered entities that are already subject to similar obligations.
The Commission requests comment on the following:
55. Do you believe in general that Regulation SE should include a rule that would require
an SBSEF to provide the Commission with information about its business or its
compliance with the SEA, as well as information regarding transfers of 50% or more
of its equity interest? Why or why not?
56. In particular, do you agree with the specific language proposed by the Commission to
adapt § 37.5 into proposed Rule 811? If not, how would you revise that language?
57. Are there any provisions of § 37.5 that are adapted into proposed Rule 811 that you
believe would be inappropriate, or would not create any benefit, in a Commission rule
applying to SBSEFs? If so, please identify any such provision, explain why it would
be inappropriate or unnecessary for SBSEFs, and what economic benefit that you
believe would result from omitting it from the Commission’s final rule.
2. Harmonization with § 1.60
Paragraph (d) of proposed Rule 811 is not modelled on § 37.5 but rather on § 1.60 of the
CFTC’s rules, which is entitled “Pending legal proceedings.” Because it is conceptually similar
82
to § 37.5 in that it requires another type of information relevant to the regulatory oversight of a
SEF, the Commission is proposing to adapt this provision into Rule 811.
§ 1.60 requires a SEF (among other entities) to provide the CFTC with copies of any
legal proceeding to which it is a party, or to which its property or assets is subject. Paragraph (d)
of proposed Rule 811 would adapt paragraphs (a), (c), and (e) of § 1.60 to apply to SBSEFs.88
Paragraph (d)(1) of proposed Rule 811 is closely modelled on § 1.60(a) and would
provide that an SBSEF shall submit to the Commission a copy of the complaint, any dispositive
or partially dispositive decision, any notice of appeal filed concerning such decision, and such
further documents as the Commission may thereafter request filed in any material legal
proceeding to which the SBSEF is a party or its property or assets is subject. Paragraph (d)(2) is
closely modelled on § 1.60(c) and would provide that an SBSEF shall submit to the Commission
a copy of the complaint, any dispositive or partially dispositive decision, any notice of appeal
filed concerning such decision, and such further documents as the Commission may thereafter
request filed in any material legal proceeding instituted against any officer, director, or other
official of the SBSEF from conduct in such person’s capacity as an official of the SBSEF and
alleging violations of the SEA or any rule, regulation, or order thereunder; the constitution,
bylaws, or rules of the SBSEF; or the applicable provisions of state law relating to the duties of
officers, directors, or other officials of business organizations.
Paragraph (d)(3) of proposed Rule 811 is loosely modelled on § 1.60(e) and would

88 Paragraphs (b) and (d) of § 1.60 apply to futures commission merchants and do not
appear germane to SEFs or SBSEFs. Therefore, the Commission is not adapting these
paragraphs into proposed Rule 811(d).
83
provide that documents required by Rule 811(d) to be submitted to the Commission shall be
submitted electronically in a form and manner specified by the Commission within ten days after
the initiation of the legal proceedings to which they relate, after the date of issuance, or after
receipt by the SBSEF of the notice of appeal, as the case may be.89
Paragraph (d)(4) of proposed Rule 811 is closely modelled on the final two sentences of
§ 1.60(e) and would provide that, for purposes of Rule 811(d), a “material legal proceeding”
includes but is not limited to actions involving alleged violations of the SEA or the Commission
rules thereunder, and that a legal proceeding is not “material” for the purposes of Rule 811 if the
proceeding is not in a federal or state court or if the Commission is a party.
The Commission preliminarily believes that, to properly oversee an SBSEF, the
Commission needs to be aware of any pending legal proceedings involving the SBSEF or any
officer, director, or other official of the SBSEF from conduct in such person’s capacity as an
official of the SBSEF. The Commission preliminarily believes, furthermore, that § 1.60 provides
an established and well understood mechanism for obtaining this information, and therefore is
using § 1.60 as the model for proposed Rule 811(d).
The Commission seeks comment on the following:
58. Do you believe in general that Regulation SE should include a rule that would require
an SBSEF to provide the Commission with information about its pending legal
proceedings? Why or why not?
59. In particular, do you agree with the specific language proposed by the Commission to
adapt § 1.60 into proposed Rule 811? If not, how would you revise that language?

89 § 1.60(e) requires relevant documents to be “mailed via first-class or submitted by other
more expeditious means.”
84
60. Are there any provisions of § 1.60 that are adapted into proposed Rule 811 that you
believe would be inappropriate, or would not create any benefit, in a Commission rule
applying to SBSEFs? If so, please identify any such provision, explain why it would
be inappropriate or unnecessary for SBSEFs, and what economic benefit that you
believe would result from omitting it from the Commission’s final rule.
B. Rule 812— Enforceability
§ 37.6(a) of the CFTC’s rules provides that a transaction entered into on or pursuant to
the rules of a SEF shall not be void, voidable, subject to rescission, otherwise invalidated, or
rendered unenforceable as a result of a violation by the SEF of the Core Principles or the Part 37
rules thereunder. § 37.6(a) also provides generally that such a transaction would not be void or
voidable as a result of a CFTC or other proceeding to alter or supplement a rule, term, or trading
rule or procedure. § 37.6(b) requires a SEF to provide each counterparty to a transaction that is
entered into on or pursuant to the rules of the SEF with a written record of all of the terms of the
transaction which shall legally supersede any previous agreement and serve as a confirmation of
the transaction. Furthermore, under § 37.6(b), the confirmation of all terms of the transaction
must take place at the same time as execution, provided that specific customer identifiers for
accounts included in bunched orders need not be included in confirmations if certain conditions
are met.
Proposed Rule 812 generally is modelled on § 37.6, but omits certain of its detailed
provisions. Paragraph (a) of proposed Rule 812, which is based on § 37.6(a)(1), would provide
that a transaction on or pursuant to the rules of an SBSEF cannot be invalidated as a result of a
85
violation by the SBSEF of Section 3D of the SEA or the Commission’s rules thereunder.90 An
SBS executed on an SBSEF should not be invalidated by the SBSEF’s violation of any of the
securities laws, given that swaps executed on SEFs are afforded the same legal certainty under
§ 37.6(a).
Paragraph (b) of proposed Rule 812 is modelled on the first sentence of § 37.6(b) and
would provide that an SBSEF shall, as soon as technologically practicable after the time of
execution of a transaction entered into on or pursuant to the rules of the facility, provide a written
record to each counterparty of all of the terms of the transaction that were agreed to on the
facility, which shall legally supersede any previous agreement regarding such terms. The
Commission preliminarily believes that it would be appropriate to require an SBSEF to inform
counterparties as soon as technologically practicable after they have effected a trade on or
pursuant the rules of the SBSEF, and to provide them with a written record of the terms to which
they have agreed. The Commission also preliminarily believes that it would be appropriate to
require that this written record legally supersede any previous agreement regarding the terms that
were agreed to on the SBSEF. The Commission recognizes, however, that there may be other
terms of an uncleared SBS transaction that are specified in one or more agreements previously
negotiated between the counterparty pair (relating, e.g., to credit support). Because agreements
between counterparty pairs likely are not known or easily obtained by an SBSEF, the
 90 The Commission is not adapting into proposed Rule 812 paragraphs (a)(2) and (a)(3) of
§ 37.6, which provide that a transaction on a SEF may not be invalidated by CFTC
proceedings that alter or supplement SEF rules, terms, and conditions, because the
Commission has no authority in the SEA analogous to the CFTC’s authority under
Section 8a(7) of the CEA to conduct such proceedings. See supra note 66 and
accompanying text.
86
Commission is not including a requirement that the SBSEF provide a written record of any such
terms.91
The Commission seeks comment on the following:
61. Do you believe in general that Regulation SE should include a rule regarding
enforceability of contracts entered into on an SBSEF that is modelled on § 37.6?
Why or why not?
62. In particular, do you agree with the specific language proposed by the Commission to
adapt § 37.6 into proposed Rule 812? If not, how would you revise that language?
63. Are there any provisions of § 37.6 that the Commission is proposing to adapt into
Rule 812 that you believe would be inappropriate, or fail to create any benefit, in a
Commission rule applicable to SBSEFs? If so, please identify any such provision,
explain why it would be inappropriate or unnecessary for SBSEFs, and what
 91 § 37.6(b) requires a SEF to provide a written record of “all of the terms of the transaction
which shall legally supersede any previous agreement and serve as a confirmation of the
transaction.” In the adopting release for the final Part 37 rules, the CFTC explained that,
with respect to uncleared swaps, a SEF could satisfy this requirement by incorporating by
reference terms set forth in agreements previously negotiated by the counterparties,
provided that such agreements had been submitted to the SEF ahead of execution. See
2013 CFTC Final SEF Rules Release, 78 FR at 33491, n. 195. The CFTC staff has
provided no-action relief with respect to the confirmation requirements for uncleared
swaps in response to assertions by industry participants that it is impracticable for a SEF
to satisfy the written confirmation requirements by incorporating by reference terms from
previously negotiated agreements between the counterparties if the SEF must receive
copies of such agreements prior to execution. See CFTC No Action Letter 17-17 (March
24, 2017) (issued by the CFTC’s Division of Market Oversight). In so doing, the CFTC
staff indicated that it was continuing to assess confirmation requirements, including
establishing a permanent solution to the issues raised. Given these circumstances, the
Commission preliminarily believes that it is appropriate to require an SBSEF to provide
counterparties with a written record of only those terms that are agreed to on the SBSEF.
87
economic benefit that you believe would result from omitting it from the
Commission’s final rule.
64. Do you believe that any of the provisions of § 37.6 for which the Commission has not
proposed an analog warrant inclusion? If so, which one(s) and why?
65. Rule 15Fi-2(f)(1) under the SEA92 provides SBS dealers and major SBS participants
with an exception from the trade acknowledgment and verification requirements for
SBS transactions “executed on [an SBSEF] or national securities exchange, provided
that the rules, procedures or processes of the [SBSEF] or national securities exchange
provide for the acknowledgment and verification of all terms of the security-based
swap transaction no later than the time required by [Rule 15Fi-2(b) and (d)(2)]”
(emphasis added). Proposed Rule 812(b) would require an SBSEF to provide a
written record only of the terms of the transaction that are agreed to on the SBSEF.
As a result, if the Commission were to adopt Rule 812(b) substantially as proposed,
the exception in Rule 15Fi-2(f)(1) would not be available where the counterparty pair
has agreed to other terms of the SBS transaction away from the SBSEF. Do you
agree with this result? If not, how would an SBSEF be able to provide a record of all
terms of an SBS transaction effected on or pursuant to the rules of the SBSEF when
there are one or more pre-existing agreements between the counterparty pair where
the counterparties agree to additional terms?
C. Rule 813—Prohibited use of data collected for regulatory purposes
§ 37.7 of the CFTC’s rules provides that a SEF shall not use for business or marketing

92 17 CFR 240.15Fi-2(f)(1).
88
purposes any proprietary data or personal information that it collects or receives from or on
behalf of any person for the purpose of fulfilling its regulatory obligations. The SEF may use
data or information for business or marketing purposes if the person consents, but the SEF may
not condition access to the SEF on the person’s providing such consent. Finally, § 37.7 provides
that a SEF, where necessary for regulatory purposes, may share such data or information with
another SEF or a DCM.
Proposed Rule 813 is modelled on § 37.7. Persons who trade on an SBSEF may have to
provide proprietary data or personal information to the SBSEF from time to time to allow the
SBSEF to carry out its regulatory obligations. The Commission preliminarily believes, in
general, that an SBSEF using that information for business or marketing purposes would be a
misappropriation, because the SBSEF’s powers to compel production of that information by its
members is for regulatory purposes, not for the benefit of the SBSEF’s business interests. While
a member of the SBSEF could consent to the SBSEF using this information for business or
marketing purposes, the Commission preliminarily believes that access to the SBSEF should not
be conditioned on such consent being given. The Commission preliminarily believes that § 37.7
is well understood by market participants and well designed for adaptation to the SBS market to
deter such misappropriation. Therefore, the Commission preliminarily believes that close
harmonization with § 37.7 is appropriate.
The Commission seeks comment on the following:
66. Do you believe in general that Regulation SE should include a rule that prohibits an
SBSEF from using for business or marketing purposes any proprietary data or
personal information that it collects or receives from or on behalf of any person for
the purpose of fulfilling its regulatory obligations? Why or why not?
89
67. In particular, do you agree with the specific language proposed by the Commission to
adapt § 37.7 into proposed Rule 813? If not, how would you revise that language?
68. Are there any provisions of § 37.7 that are adapted into proposed Rule 813 that you
believe would be inappropriate, or would not create any benefit, in a Commission rule
applying to SBSEFs? If so, please identify any such provision, explain why it would
be inappropriate or unnecessary for SBSEFs, and what economic benefit that you
believe would result from omitting it from the Commission’s final rule.
D. Rule 814—Entity operating both a national securities exchange and SBSEF
§ 37.8 of the CFTC’s rules applies to a board of trade that operates both a DCM and a
SEF. Paragraph (a) of § 37.8 requires the board of trade to separately register the DCM and the
SEF with the CFTC under the respective rules for each type of market. Paragraph (b) requires a
board of trade that operates both types of market and that uses the same electronic trade
execution system for executing and trading swaps on both markets to clearly identify to market
participants whether an execution of a swap took place on the DCM or on the SEF.
Proposed Rule 814 is modelled on § 37.8. Paragraph (a) of proposed Rule 814 would
provide that an entity intending to operate both a national securities exchange and an SBSEF
shall separately register the two facilities pursuant to Section 6 of the SEA and Rule 803
thereunder. Paragraph (b), although adapted generally from § 37.8(b), draws its specific
language from Section 3D(c) of the SEA.
93 Section 3D(c) contemplates that a single entity may
operate both a national securities exchange and an SBSEF, and would provide that a national
securities exchange shall, to the extent that the exchange also operates an SBSEF and uses the

93 15 U.S.C. 78c-4(c).
90
same electronic trade execution system for listing and executing trades of SBS on or through
the exchange and the facility, identify whether electronic trading of SBS is taking place on or
through the national securities exchange or the SBSEF. Proposed Rule 814(b) copies Section
3D(c) of the SEA verbatim.
The Commission preliminarily believes that it is appropriate for proposed Regulation SE
to include a rule that clarifies the registration status of an entity that operates both an exchange
and an SBSEF, and that broadly parallels § 37.8.
The Commission seeks comment on the following:
69. Do you believe in general that Regulation SE should include a rule that clarifies the
registration status of an entity that operates both an exchange and an SBSEF? Why
or why not?
70. In particular, do you agree with the specific language proposed by the Commission in
Rule 814? If not, how would you revise that language?
71. Do you believe that more detailed rules are necessary to address the extent to which
an entity should keep separate its exchange and its SBSEF or, conversely, areas
where overlapping functionality or personnel should expressly be allowed? If so,
please discuss.
E. Rule 815—Methods of execution for Required and Permitted Transactions
A key goal of the Dodd-Frank Act is to bring trading of swaps and SBS onto regulated
markets, as reflected in the statutory requirements for mandatory clearing and mandatory trade
91
execution of certain swap and SBS products.94 If the relevant agency makes a mandatory
clearing determination regarding a product, the product becomes subject to mandatory trade
execution if at least one DCM/exchange or SEF/SBSEF makes the product “available to trade.”
The legislative history of the Dodd-Frank Act indicates that exchange trading is a mechanism to
“provide pre- and post-trade transparency for end users, market participants, and regulators.”95
Exchange trading also enhances market efficiency by allowing multiple market participants the
opportunity to compete for individual transactions on price, in contrast to the bilateral, dealerdriven market that prevailed before the Dodd-Frank Act.96 The Dodd-Frank Act does not
require, however, that all products be subject to mandatory clearing and/or mandatory trade
execution, and does not impose any execution requirements for transactions in such products.
§ 37.9 of the CFTC’s rules addresses these issues using the concepts of “Required Transaction”
 94 See 7 U.S.C. 2(h)(1)(A) (mandatory clearing for swaps) and 2(h)(8) (mandatory trade
execution for swaps); 15 U.S.C. 78c-3(a)(1) (mandatory clearing for SBS) and 78c-3(h)
(mandatory trade execution for SBS). The heads of the Group of Twenty countries
(“G20”) have also emphasized the importance of exchange-trading of OTC derivatives,
noting in 2009 that “[a]ll standardized OTC derivative contracts should be traded on
exchanges or electronic trading platforms, where appropriate, and cleared through central
counterparties by end-2012 at the latest.” See G20, Leaders’ Statement: The Pittsburgh
Summit (September 24-25, 2009) at p. 9.
95 S. Rep. No. 111-176, at 34 (2010). See also Mark Jickling & Kathleen Ann Ruane, “The
Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act: Title VII, Derivatives,”
Cong. Research Serv., R41398, at 7 (August 30, 2010) (explaining that the goal of the
trade execution requirement is to promote pre-trade price transparency).
96 See id. at 34 (quoting Stanford University Professor Darrel Duffie: “The relative
opaqueness of the OTC market implies that bid/ask spreads are in many cases not being
set as competitively as they would be on exchanges. This entails a loss in market
efficiency”). See also id. (quoting International Risk Analytics co-founder Christopher
Whalen: “The absence of an exchange trading mandate provides ‘supra normal returns
paid to the dealers in the closed OTC derivatives market [and] are effectively a tax on
other market participants, especially investors who trade on open, public exchanges”).
92
and “Permitted Transaction.” The Commission is proposing Rule 815 of Regulation SE to adapt
§ 37.9 for SBSEFs.
§ 37.9(a) defines a “Required Transaction” as any transaction involving a swap that is
subject to the trade execution requirement in Section 2(h)(8) of the CEA, subject to certain
exceptions. § 37.9(c) defines a “Permitted Transaction” as the obverse of a Required
Transaction: any transaction involving a swap that is not subject to the CEA’s trade execution
requirement. § 37.9(c) provides that a SEF may offer any method of execution for a Permitted
Transaction. In addition, § 37.9(a) provides that a Required Transaction that is not a block trade
must generally be executed by a SEF using an order book97 or a request-for-quote (“RFQ”)
system.98
Under § 37.9(a)(3), a SEF that offers an RFQ system in connection with a Required
Transaction must, at the same time that the requester receives the first responsive bid or offer,
communicate to the requester any firm bid or offer pertaining to the same instrument resting on
any of the SEF’s order books. In addition, the SEF must provide the requester with the ability to
execute against such firm resting bids or offers along with any responsive orders. Finally, the
SEF must ensure that its trading protocols provide each of its market participants with equal
priority in receiving requests for quotes and in transmitting and displaying for execution
 97 § 37.9(a)(2)(i)(A) defines “order book” by cross-referencing to § 37.3(a)(3) for a
definition of “order book,” which in turn relies on cross-references to other provisions of
the CEA for the embedded terms “trading facility” and “electronic trading facility.”
98 § 37.9(a)(3) defines “request for quote system” as a trading system or platform in which a
market participant transmits a request for a quote to buy or sell a specific instrument to no
less than three market participants in the trading system or platform, to which all such
market participants may respond. § 37.9(a)(3) further provides that, to meet the
definition, the three market participants shall not be affiliates or controlled by the
requester, and shall not be affiliates of or controlled by each other.
93
responsive orders.
§ 37.9(b) establishes a time-delay requirement for a Required Transaction on an order
book. Under the rule, a SEF must require that a broker or dealer who seeks to either execute
against its customer’s order or to execute two of its customers’ orders against each other through
the SEF’s order book (following some form of pre-arrangement or pre-negotiation of such
orders) be subject to at least a 15-second time delay between the entry of those two orders into
the order book, such that one side of the potential transaction is disclosed and made available to
other market participants before the second side of the potential transaction, whether for the
broker’s or dealer’s own account or for the second customer, is submitted for execution.99
Paragraphs (a) through (c) of proposed Rule 815 are modelled on paragraphs (a) through
(c) of § 37.9. Proposed Rule 815(a)(1), based on § 37.9(a)(1), would define “Required
Transaction” as “any transaction involving a security-based swap that is subject to the trade
execution requirement in section 3C(h) of the Act.” Proposed Rule 815(a)(2), based on
§ 37.9(a)(2), would specify execution methods for Required Transactions. Proposed Rule
815(a)(3), based on § 37.9(a)(3), would define an RFQ system as “a trading system or platform
in which a market participant transmits a request for a quote to buy or sell a specific instrument
to no less than three market participants in the trading system or platform, to which all such
market participants may respond” and specify other requirements for an RFQ system to be
recognized as such under the rule. The three market participants could not be affiliates of
or controlled by the requester and shall not be affiliates of or controlled by each other. Also, an

99 § 37.9(b) permits a SEF to adjust the time-delay requirement to something other than 15
seconds, based on a swap’s liquidity or other product-specific considerations. However,
any such adjustment must still be for a sufficient length so that an order is exposed to the
market and other market participants have a meaningful opportunity to execute against it.
94
SBSEF that offers an RFQ system in connection with a Required Transaction would be required,
at the same time that the requester receives the first responsive bid or offer, to communicate to
the requester any firm bid or offer pertaining to the same SBS resting on any of the SBSEF’s
order books. In addition, the SBSEF would be required to provide the requester with the ability
to execute against such firm resting bids or offers along with any responsive orders. Finally, the
SBSEF would be required to ensure that its trading protocols provide each of its members with
equal priority in receiving requests for quotes and in transmitting and displaying for execution
responsive orders.
Paragraph (b) of proposed Rule 815 is modelled on § 37.9(b) and would provide for a
time delay requirement for Required Transactions on an order book. § 37.9(b) recognizes that
there are situations where a broker or dealer might seek to trade against a customer order (a
“facilitation cross”) or cross two customer orders (a “customer cross”) where the product being
traded is subject to mandatory trade execution. Under § 37.9(b), the broker or dealer must
expose customer orders on the SEF order book for a required minimum period so that other
market participants have the opportunity to offer a better price than the broker or dealer had
intended for the cross. Proposed Rule 815(b) closely follows the order-handling requirements of
§ 37.9(b) for facilitation and customer crosses that are Required Transactions.
The Commission preliminarily believes that the CFTC’s rules relating to Required
Transactions are reasonably designed to promote price competition in products that are subject to
the trade execution requirement. The Commission recognizes that, when considering rules for
SBS that are subject to mandatory clearing and mandatory trade execution, additional or different
criteria could plausibly achieve the goal of promoting price competition. It is debatable, for
example, whether slightly different standards—such as RFQ-to-4 or RFQ-to-2 in lieu of
95
RFQ-to-3, or a 30-second book-exposure requirement instead of 15 seconds—might promote
these ends more effectively. However, the Commission’s determination to propose rules that are
closely modelled on those in § 37.9 reflects the baseline established by the CFTC rules. Most if
not all SBSEFs will be dually registered with the CFTC as SEFs, and most if not all market
participants in the SBS market will likely be participants in the swap market. The Commission
appreciates that different or additive requirements—particularly for the key concept of a
“Required Transaction”—could introduce complexity and confusion if one set of trading
protocols applied to Required Transactions for SBS but different protocols—ones that have been
understood and utilized for many years—applied to Required Transactions for swap transactions.
Under both the CEA and SEA, Core Principle 2 requires a SEF/SBSEF to specify trading
procedures to be used in entering and executing orders on the facility, including block trades.100
The CFTC implements this provision by excepting block trades from the required execution
methods in § 37.9(a)(2). That rule cross-references § 43.2, which defines the term “block trade”
for purposes of public dissemination of swap transactions.
The Commission preliminarily believes that it should adopt an approach to block trades
in Regulation SE that closely aligns with the approach taken by the CFTC. The purpose of
having a block exception to the required methods of execution is to balance the promotion of
price competition and all-to-all trading against the potential costs to market participants who
wish to trade large orders. Forcing a market participant who seeks liquidity to expose a large
order to a SEF/SBSEF order book or to utilize RFQ-to-3 could cause the market to move against
the liquidity requester before it can obtain an execution. Under the CFTC’s rules, a block trade
 100 15 U.S.C. 78c-4(d)(2)(C); 7 U.S.C. 7b-3(f)(2)(C).
96
in a product that is subject to mandatory trade execution may be traded on-SEF using flexible
means of execution on the SEF’s non-order-book trading system or platform, or away from a
SEF’s trading system or platform, provided that it is executed pursuant to the SEF’s rules and
procedures.
Proposed Rule 815(a)(2) would exclude block trades from the required execution
methods using language closely modelled on § 37.9(a)(2). The Commission also preliminary
believes that it should align the definition of “block trade” in proposed Regulation SE as closely
as possible to the CFTC’s definition. Therefore, the proposed definition—located in proposed
Rule 802 of Regulation SE—is based on the four-pronged definition found in § 43.2(a), but with
one modification. The third prong of the CFTC definition characterizes a block trade in a
particular swap as having “a notional or principal amount at or above the appropriate minimum
block size applicable to such swap.” Appendix F to the CFTC’s Part 43 divides swap asset
classes into a number of categories, and sets forth a minimum block size threshold to each
category. SBS are not within the CFTC’s jurisdiction, so the CFTC has never considered what
an appropriate minimum block size threshold would be for any SBS asset class. In this respect,
there is no threshold for the SEC to harmonize with, so the Commission is proposing to establish
a threshold tailored specifically for the SBS market.
For the third prong of the “block trade” definition, the Commission is proposing that the
SBS is based on a single credit instrument (or issuer of credit instruments) or a narrow-based
index of credit instruments (or issuers of credit instruments) having a notional size of $5 million
or greater. The Commission previously employed a $5 million block threshold for credit SBS as
97
a condition to one prong of its no-action statement regarding Regulation SBSR.101 In imposing
that condition, the Commission noted that the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority
(“FINRA”) applies a $5 million cap when disseminating transaction reports of economically
similar cash debt securities.102
The proposed definition of “block trade” in Rule 802 does not include any equity SBS.
In this regard, the Commission’s approach follows the CFTC’s; Appendix F to the CFTC’s Part
43 does not include a block threshold for any type of equity swap. Accordingly, no equity swap
may qualify for the exception to required means of execution for block trades provided in
§ 37.9(a)(2), and no equity SBS could qualify for the exception to required means of execution
for block trades in proposed Rule 815(a)(2).
Paragraphs (d) and (e) of § 37.9 provide additional exceptions that allow for flexible
methods of execution for what would otherwise be Required Transactions. The Commission
would include similar exceptions in proposed Rules 815(d) and (e).
Paragraph (d) of § 37.9 allows for flexible methods of execution for package transactions
 101 See SEA Release No. 87780 (December 18, 2019), 85 FR 6270, 6347 (February 4, 2020)
(“ANE Adopting Release and No-Action Statement”) (stating, in relevant part, that there
would not be a basis for a Commission enforcement action if “a registered SDR does not
disseminate an SBS transaction in a manner consistent with Rule 902 [of Regulation
SBSR] but instead disseminates (or does not disseminate), the SBS transaction in a
manner consistent with Part 43 of the CFTC’s swap reporting rules in force at the time of
the transaction, provided that for an SBS based on a single credit instrument or a narrowbased index of credit instruments having a notional size of $5 million or greater, the
registered SDR that receives the report of the SBS transaction does not utilize any
capping or bucketing convention under Part 43 of the CFTC’s swap reporting rules but
instead disseminates a capped size of $5 million (e.g., ‘$5MM+’ or similar) in lieu of the
true notional size”).
102 See id. at n. 768 (citing FINRA Regulatory Notice 12-39, available at
https://www.finra.org/rules-guidance/notices/12-39).
98
that meet certain enumerated criteria. § 37.9(d)(1) defines “package transaction” as two or more
component transactions executed between two or more counterparties where at least one
component is a Required Transaction, execution of each component is contingent upon the
execution of all other components, and the component transactions are priced or quoted together
as one economic transaction with simultaneous (or near-simultaneous) execution of all
components. § 37.9(d)(2) provides that a Required Transaction that is executed as a component
of a package transaction that includes a component swap that is subject exclusively to the
CFTC’s jurisdiction, but is not subject to mandatory clearing, may be executed on a SEF using
any method of execution as if it were a Permitted Transaction. § 37.9(d)(3) provides that a
Required Transaction that is executed as a component of a package transaction that includes a
component that is not a swap may be executed on a SEF using any method of execution as if it
were a Permitted Transaction. § 37.9(d)(3) further states that this general exception, which
allows flexible means of execution for certain package transactions, shall not apply to a Required
Transaction that is executed as a component of a package transaction in which all other nonswap components are U.S. Treasury securities; a Required Transaction that is executed as a
component of a package transaction in which all other non-swap components are contracts for
the purchase or sale of a commodity for future delivery; a Required Transaction that is executed
as a component of a package transaction in which all other non-swap components are agency
mortgage-backed securities; or a Required Transaction that is executed as a component of a
package transaction that includes a component transaction that is the issuance of a bond in a
primary market.
Proposed Rule 815(d) is closely modelled on § 37.9(d) and is designed to balance the
goal of promoting transparency in the SBS market through required methods of execution
99
against the market efficiency of allowing multiple instruments to trade as a package using
flexible methods of execution.103 A rule that was too lenient could subvert the goal of promoting
transparency and competition through all-to-all trading, while a rule that was too strict could
cause market participants to break the package into its individual components, thereby increasing
transaction costs and reducing the economic purpose and efficiency of the package transaction.
The Commission preliminarily believes that the CFTC has struck an appropriate balance between
these competing policy goals in § 37.9(d), and is therefore proposing to align its own rule closely
with the CFTC’s. The Commission recognizes, however, that the kinds of packages described in
§ 37.9(d)(3) might be used only in the swap market and might not be utilized in the SBS market.
The Commission seeks comment on that matter below.
§ 37.9(e) sets out procedures for resolution of operational and clerical error trades, which
could be for swaps that otherwise would be subject to required means of execution. § 37.9(e)(1)
defines the terms “correcting trade,” “error trade,” and “offsetting trade” that are used in the rule.
§ 37.9(e)(2) requires a SEF to maintain rules and procedures that facilitate the resolution of error
trades and sets forth certain requirements designed to promote resolution in a fair, transparent,
and consistent manner. As their names suggest, these types of trades are necessary to reverse
errors. They are not conducted for the purpose of competitive price discovery and thus the pretrade transparency goals for SEF/SBSEF trading are not implicated.
 103 To the extent that counterparties may be facilitating a package transaction that involves a
“swap,” as defined in Section 1(a)(47) of the CEA, 7 U.S.C. 1a(47), or any contract for
the purchase or sale of a commodity for future delivery (or option on such a contract), or
any component agreement, contract, or transaction over which the Commission does not
have exclusive jurisdiction, the Commission does not opine on whether such activity
complies with other applicable law and regulations.
100
Proposed Rule 815(e) is modelled on § 37.9(e), although definitions of the terms
“correcting trade,” “error trade,” and “offsetting trade” would be included in proposed Rule 802
rather than in proposed Rule 815(e).104 A fair and orderly market needs rules to address error
trades when they occur, and such rules should be fair, transparent, and consistent. The market
might need to make correcting trades or offsetting trades to reverse the effect of the original error
trade. The CFTC’s rules for addressing error trades are well articulated and well understood by
the market, so the Commission preliminarily believes that they serve as an appropriate model for
the Commission’s rules. Furthermore, because most if not all SBSEFs also will be registered
with the CFTC as SEFs, close harmonization in this regard would allow dually registered entities
to employ the same procedures for addressing error trades, whether they arise in the context of
swap trading or SBS trading.
§ 37.9(f) addresses counterparty anonymity and is widely referred to as the prohibition on
“post-trade name give-up.” § 37.9(f) generally prohibits any person, directly or indirectly
(including through a third-party service provider), from disclosing the identity of a counterparty
to a swap that is executed anonymously on a SEF and intended to be cleared, and requires the
SEF to establish and maintain rules to that effect. § 37.9(f) provides that “executed
 104 See proposed Rule 802(d) (defining “correcting trade” as a trade executed and submitted
for clearing to a registered clearing agency with the same terms and conditions as an error
trade other than any corrections to any operational or clerical error and the time of
execution); proposed Rule 802(l) (defining “error trade” as any trade executed on or
subject to the rules of an SBSEF that contains an operational or clerical error); proposed
Rule 802(q) (defining “offsetting trade” as a trade executed and submitted for clearing to
a registered clearing agency with terms and conditions that economically reverse an error
trade that was accepted for clearing). These proposed definitions are modelled on the
definitions of the same terms in § 37.9(e)(1).
101
anonymously” as used in the rule includes a swap that is pre-arranged or pre-negotiated
anonymously, including by a SEF participant. Finally, § 37.9(f) provides that, where a package
transaction includes a component swap that is not intended to be cleared, disclosing the identity
of a counterparty would not violate § 37.9.
Proposed Rule 815(f) is modelled on § 37.9(f). The Commission preliminarily agrees
with the CFTC that prohibiting post-trade name give-up is reasonably necessary to facilitate and
promote trading on SEFs.105 The practice of requiring disclosure of one counterparty’s name to
the other counterparty (i.e., “name give-up”) increases the risk of information leakage and can
deter participation by liquidity seekers on SEFs and SBSEFs. The Commission preliminarily
believes, like the CFTC, that prohibiting post-trade name give-up will promote pre-trade price
transparency by encouraging a greater number, and a more diverse set, of market participants to
anonymously post bids and offers on regulated markets. Therefore, the Commission
preliminarily that it should incorporate the same prohibition into Regulation SE.
The Commission seeks comment on the following:
72. Do you believe in general that the CFTC’s concepts of “Required Transactions” and
“Permitted Transactions” should be incorporated into proposed Regulation SE? Why
or why not?
73. In particular, do you believe that the execution methods set forth in § 37.9 for
Required Transactions are appropriate for SBSEFs and the SBS market? Why or why
not? Do you observe differences between swap and SBS products that warrant
different or additional criteria for Required Transactions on SBSEFs? If so, please

105 CFTC, Post Trade Name Give-Up on Swap Execution Facilities, 85 FR 44693, 44695
(July 24, 2020).
102
describe those differences, and suggest and justify any different execution methods
for Required Transactions in SBS that you believe appropriate.
74. Do you believe that proposed Rule 815 should harmonize with the CFTC rule for
handling facilitation and customer crosses in products subject to the trade execution
requirement? Why or why not? If not, please suggest and justify any different orderhandling requirements that you believe appropriate.
75. Do you agree in general with excepting block trades from the required methods of
execution? Why or why not?
76. Do you agree in general with the Commission’s proposed approach of adapting the
CFTC definition of “block trade” from § 43.2 for SBSEFs? Why or why not?
77. Do you agree in particular with the $5 million prong of the SEC’s proposed definition
of “block trade”? Why or why not? Do you believe that a threshold other than $5
million would be appropriate? If so, what numerical threshold and why? Do you
believe that there should be different thresholds for different asset classes (or subasset classes)? If so, please discuss.
78. Do you believe in general that the Commission, like the CFTC in § 37.9(d), should
allow for flexible means of execution for an SBS subject to the trade execution
requirement when it is part of a package trade? Why or why not?
79. If so, do you believe that the exceptions to required methods of execution for package
transactions set forth in proposed Rule 815(d) are appropriate? Why or why not?
Are there aspects of the CFTC’s criteria that are not relevant for the SBS market and
should be omitted? If so, which provision(s) and why? Are there different types of
packages that involve SBS that are not prevalent in the swap market that should be
103
incorporated into the SEC’s exceptions? If so, please describe these packages and
suggest an appropriate way to characterize them in Rule 815(d).
80. Do you agree with how the Commission is proposing to harmonize with the
§ 37.9(d)(3)’s “exceptions to the exception” for package trades in proposed Rule
815(d)(3)? Why or why not? Are the kinds of packages described in § 37.9(d)(3)
unique to the swap market? If there are other types of package transactions involving
SBS that you believe should be subject to required means of execution despite
allowing other types of packages to use flexible means of execution, please describe
these types of packages and explain why you believe they should nevertheless be
subject to required means of execution.
81. Do you believe in general that the Commission, like the CFTC in § 37.9(e), should
allow for flexible means of execution for products that otherwise would be subject to
the trade execution requirement when an SBSEF is performing a correcting, error, or
offsetting trade? Why or why not?
82. If so, do you believe that the SEC’s proposed definitions for these terms, which are
closely modelled on the CFTC’s definitions, are appropriate? Why or why not? If
not, what alternative definition(s) would you suggest, and why?
83. Do you agree in general that the SEC rules for SBSEFs, like the CFTC rules for
SEFs, should prohibit post-trade name give-up? Why or why not? If so, do you
agree with the manner in which the Commission is proposing to implement it (i.e.,
close harmonization with § 37.9(f))? Why or why not?
F. Rule 816—Trade execution requirement and exemptions therefrom
104
Section 3C of the SEA106 sets out a procedure whereby an SBS becomes subject to
mandatory clearing. Section 3C(h) of the SEA provides that, if a transaction involving an SBS is
subject to the mandatory clearing requirement, the counterparties shall execute the transaction on
an exchange, on an SBSEF registered under Section 3D of the SEA, or on an SBSEF that is
exempt from registration under Section 3D(e) of the SEA, unless no exchange or SBSEF makes
the SBS available to trade or if the SBS transaction is subject to an exception from the clearing
requirement under Section 3C(g) of the SEA. This obligation under Section 3C(h) is commonly
referred to as the “trade execution requirement.” Proposed Rule 816 of Regulation SE would
establish procedures for an SBSEF to make an SBS available to trade (assuming it is also subject
to the clearing requirement), thereby activating the trade execution requirement with respect to
that SBS. Proposed Rule 816 also would include three proposed exemptions from the trade
execution requirement.
1. Process for an SBSEF to make an SBS product available to trade
Paragraphs (a) through (d) of proposed Rule 816 are modelled on § 37.10 of the CFTC’s
rules and would establish a process whereby an SBS product is “made available to trade”
(“MAT”) by an SBSEF. An SBSEF may list an SBS that is subject to mandatory clearing, but
listing the product does not by itself subject the product to the trade execution requirement in
Section 3C(h) of the SEA. Only if a product that is subject to mandatory clearing is listed and
MAT would the SBS then become subject to the trade execution requirement. A MAT
determination would have to be made and filed by an SBSEF pursuant to proposed Rule 816 to
trigger the trade execution requirement, similar to the MAT process of § 37.10.
 106 15 U.S.C. 78c-3.
105
Paragraph (a)(1) of proposed Rule 816, like § 37.10(a)(1), would provide that an SBSEF
that makes an SBS available to trade in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section, must
submit to the Commission its determination with respect to such SBS as a rule, pursuant to the
procedures under proposed Rule 806 or 807. Paragraph (a)(2), modelled on § 37.10(a)(2), would
provide that an SBSEF that makes an SBS available to trade must demonstrate that it lists or
offers that SBS for trading on its trading system or platform.
Paragraph (b) of proposed Rule 816 would set out the factors that an SBSEF must
consider when making a MAT determination for an SBS product. Proposed Rule 816(b) would
incorporate the same six factors enumerated in § 37.10(b): (1) Whether there are ready and
willing buyers and sellers; (2) The frequency or size of transactions; (3) The trading volume;
(4) The number and types of market participants; (5) The bid/ask spread; and (6) The usual
number of resting firm or indicative bids and offers.
Paragraph (c) of proposed Rule 816, modelled on § 37.10(c), would provide that, upon a
determination that an SBS is MAT on an SBSEF or SBS exchange,
107 all other SBSEFs and SBS
exchanges shall comply with the requirements of Section 3C(h) of the SEA in listing or offering
such SBS for trading. Paragraph (d) of proposed Rule 816, like § 37.10(d), would provide that
the Commission may issue a determination that an SBS is no longer MAT upon determining that
no SBSEF or SBS exchange lists such SBS for trading.
The Commission preliminarily believes that it is appropriate for Regulation SE to
establish a mechanism whereby an SBSEF can MAT an SBS product, and that this mechanism

107 An SBS exchange, like all national securities exchanges, must submit any rule change—
including a rule change to list a new derivative securities product and/or to MAT an SBS
product—pursuant to SEA Rule 19b-4, 17 CFR 240.19b-4. The Commission is not
proposing to establish a new procedure for SBS exchanges to list or MAT SBS products.
106
should align with the CFTC’s as closely as possible. The CFTC’s procedures are well articulated
and well understood by SEFs, so the Commission preliminarily believes that closely
harmonizing with these procedures would yield comparable regulatory benefits while
minimizing burdens on SBSEFs. In particular, the Commission preliminarily believes that the
criteria for MAT consideration are equally applicable to the SEF and SBSEF markets, and thus
the Commission is not proposing any different or additional criteria that would have to be
considered by an SBSEF when it wishes to MAT an SBS product.
The Commission seeks comment on the following:
84. Do you believe in general that Regulation SE should establish a process whereby an
SBSEF can MAT an SBS product that harmonizes closely with § 37.10? Why or why
not?
85. In particular, do you object to any of the specific language choices made to adapt
§ 37.10 into proposed Rules 816(a) to (d)? If so, what alternative language would
you suggest?
86. Are there any provisions of § 37.10 that are adapted into proposed Rules 816(a) to (d)
that you believe would be inappropriate, or would not create any benefit, in a
Commission rule applying to SBSEFs? If so, please identify any such provision,
explain why it would be inappropriate or unnecessary for SBSEFs, and what
economic benefit that you believe would result from omitting it from the
Commission’s final rule.
2. Exemptions from trade execution requirement
Paragraph (e) of proposed Rule 816 has no analog in § 37.10, but instead is adapted from
§ 36.1, which sets out certain exemptions from the trade execution requirement. The exemptions
107
incorporated into § 36.1 result from the CFTC’s many years of experience in administering the
CEA’s trade execution requirement. The Commission preliminarily believes that it should
borrow from the CFTC’s experience and incorporate the same exemptions into Regulation SE.
Paragraph (e)(1) of proposed Rule 816, modelled on § 36.1(a), would provide that an
SBS transaction that is executed as a component of a package transaction that also includes a
component transaction that is the issuance of a bond in a primary market is exempt from the
trade execution requirement in Section 3C(h) of the SEA. In addition, paragraph (e)(1), like
§ 36.1(a), would provide that, for purposes of paragraph (e), a package transaction would consist
of two or more component transactions executed between two or more counterparties where at
least one component transaction is subject to the trade execution requirement in Section 3C(h) of
the SEA; execution of each component transaction is contingent upon the execution of all other
component transactions; and the component transactions are priced or quoted together as one
economic transaction with simultaneous or near-simultaneous execution of all components.
For the same reasons identified by the CFTC,108 the Commission, pursuant to Section
36(a)(1) of the SEA,109 preliminarily believes that it is necessary or appropriate in the public
interest, and is consistent with the protection of investors, to exempt SBS from the trade
execution requirement in Section 3C(h) of the SEA if the criteria in proposed Rule 816(e)(1) are
met.
§ 36.1(b) provides that Section 2(h)(8) of the CEA does not apply to a swap transaction

108 See CFTC, Swap Execution Facility Requirements, 85 FR 82313, 82320 (December 18,
2020).
109 15 U.S.C. 78mm(a)(1).
108
that qualifies for the exception under Section 2(h)(7) of the CEA or an exception or exemption
under Part 50 of the CFTC’s rules, and for which the associated requirements are met.110 The
Commission is proposing to adapt § 36.1(b) as paragraph (e)(2) of proposed Rule 816, to provide
that Section 3C(h) of the SEA does not apply to an SBS transaction that qualifies for an
exception111 under Section 3C(g) of the SEA, or any exemption from the clearing requirement
that is granted by the Commission, for which the associated requirements are met.112 Unlike the
CFTC, the Commission does not have a specific rule to cite to regarding exemptions from the
clearing requirement, so proposed Rule 816(e)(2) would refer only generally to such exemptions.
When adopting § 36.1(b), the CFTC found that exempting swaps that qualified for an
exemption from or exception to the clearing requirement was consistent with its authority under
Section 4(c) of the CEA.113 The CFTC also noted Congress’s intent to link the clearing
requirement with the trade execution requirement, so that a swap that was exempted or excepted

110 By its terms, Section 2(h)(8) of the CEA provides that the trade execution requirement
does not apply to swaps that are excepted from the clearing requirement pursuant to
Section 2(h)(7) of the CEA. However, when adopting § 36.1(b), the CFTC noted that it
also has adopted exemptions from the clearing requirement pursuant to other statutory
authority (i.e., its exemptive authority under CEA Section 4(c)). See CFTC, Exemptions
From Swap Trade Execution Requirement, 86 FR 8993, 8995 (February 11, 2021)
(“CFTC Swap Trade Execution Exemptions Release”) (discussing exemptions relating to
cooperatives and inter-affiliate swaps).
111 The Commission notes that Section 3C(g) of the SEA is entitled “Exceptions,” not
“Exemptions.”
112 As with Section 2(h)(8) of the CEA, Section 3C(h) of the SEA provides that the trade
execution requirement does not apply to SBS that are excepted from the clearing
requirement pursuant to Section 3C(g) of the SEA. However, the Commission could, like
the CFTC, grant exemptions from the clearing requirement pursuant to other statutory
authority, such as Section 36 of the SEA.
113 See CFTC Swap Trade Execution Exemptions Release, 86 FR at 8996.
109
from the former also should be exempted from the latter.114 For the same reasons identified by
the CFTC, the Commission, pursuant to Section 36(a)(1) of the SEA, preliminarily believes that
it is necessary or appropriate in the public interest, and is consistent with the protection of
investors, to exempt an SBS from the trade execution requirement in Section 3C(h) of the SEA if
the SBS qualifies for an exception under Section 3C(g) of the SEA, or benefits from any
exemption from the clearing requirement that is granted by the Commission, for which the
associated requirements are met.
§ 36.1(c) provides that Section 2(h)(8) of the CEA does not apply to a swap transaction
that is executed between counterparties that have eligible affiliate counterparty status pursuant to
paragraph (a) of § 50.52 of the CFTC’s rules, which provides an exception from the clearing
requirement for inter-affiliate swaps, subject to conditions. Counterparties to a swap that have
eligible affiliate counterparty status may rely on the § 36.1(c) even if they clear the swap
transaction. The Commission is proposing to adapt § 36.1(c) as paragraph (e)(3) of proposed
Rule 816 to provide that Section 3C(h) of the SEA does not apply to an SBS transaction that is
executed between counterparties that qualify as “eligible affiliate counterparties.” Since the
Commission does not have an equivalent to § 50.52 to reference, the Commission is proposing
instead to define the term “eligible affiliate counterparties” directly in proposed Rule 816(e)(3).
Counterparties would be “eligible affiliate counterparties” for purposes of proposed Rule
816(e)(3) if: (i) one counterparty, directly or indirectly, holds a majority ownership interest in
the other counterparty, and the counterparty that holds the majority interest in the other
counterparty reports its financial statements on a consolidated basis under Generally Accepted

114 See id.
110
Accounting Principles or International Financial Reporting Standards, and such consolidated
financial statements include the financial results of the majority-owned counterparty; or (ii) a
third party, directly or indirectly, holds a majority ownership interest in both counterparties, and
the third party reports its financial statements on a consolidated basis under Generally Accepted
Accounting Principles or International Financial Reporting Standards, and such consolidated
financial statements include the financial results of both of the counterparties. In addition, for
purposes of proposed Rule 816(e)(3), a counterparty or third party directly or indirectly would
hold a majority ownership interest if it directly or indirectly holds a majority of the equity
securities of an entity, or the right to receive upon dissolution, or the contribution of, a majority
of the capital of a partnership. These definitions closely are modelled on the equivalent
definitions used in § 50.52, which are incorporated into § 36.1(c).
When adopting § 36.1(c), the CFTC noted that it was codifying previously issued noaction relief.115 The CFTC also stated that these transactions are not intended to be arm’s-length,
market-facing, or competitively executed under any circumstance, irrespective of the type of
swap involved. Therefore, these transactions would not contribute to the price discovery process
if executed on a SEF or DCM.116 The CFTC recognized the efficiency benefits associated with
entering into inter-affiliate swaps via internal processes and acknowledged that applying the
trade execution requirement to such transactions could inhibit affiliated counterparties from
efficiently executing these types of transactions for risk management, operational, and
accounting purposes.117 The CFTC concluded, therefore, that—as with the exemptions set forth

115 See id. at 8997.
116 See id.
117 Id.
111
in § 36.1(a) and (b)—granting an exemption from the trade execution requirement for swap
transactions that are executed between counterparties that have eligible affiliate counterparty
status was consistent with its exemptive authority under the CEA, regardless of whether the swap
is submitted to clearing.
118 For the same reasons identified by the CFTC, the Commission,
pursuant to Section 36(a)(1) of the SEA, preliminarily believes that it is appropriate to exempt
from the trade execution requirement an SBS that is executed between counterparties that qualify
as eligible affiliate counterparties, even if the counterparties clear the SBS transaction. The
Commission also preliminarily believes that it is appropriate in the public interest to adapt into
proposed Rule 816 the definition of “eligible affiliate counterparties” used in the CFTC’s rules
because this term is generally well understood by market participants. Furthermore, the
Commission preliminarily believes that market participants should be permitted to apply the
same standard for determining whether an inter-affiliate swap or SBS will be exempt from the
trade execution requirement.
The Commission seeks comment on the following:
87. Do you believe in general that Regulation SE should incorporate similar exemptions
from the trade execution requirement that the CFTC provides in § 36.1? Why or why
not?
88. In particular, do you object to any of the specific language choices made to adapt
§ 36.1 into proposed Rule 816(e)? If so, what alternative language would you
suggest?
89. Do you believe that the exemption in proposed Rule 816(e)(1) is even necessary? In

118 See id. at 8998.
112
other words, do market participants engage in package transactions involving SBS
and new issuance bonds of the type described in § 36.1(a), or do these types of
packages involve only IRS and thus would not be applicable to the SBS market?
90. Are there any other provisions of § 36.1 that are adapted into proposed Rule 816(e)
that you believe would be inappropriate, or would not create any benefit, in a
Commission rule applying to SBSEFs? If so, please identify any such provision,
explain why it would be inappropriate or unnecessary for SBSEFs, and what
economic benefit that you believe would result from omitting it from the
Commission’s final rule.
91. Are there any types of SBS that you believe should be exempt from the trade
execution requirement that have no analog in the swap market and thus are not
reflected in the CFTC’s list of exemptions to the CEA trade execution requirement in
§ 36.1? If so, please describe and justify any potential exemptions that you believe
should be added to proposed Rule 816(e).
G. Rule 817—Trade execution compliance schedule
Proposed Rule 817 is modelled on § 37.12 of the CFTC’s rules, which is designed to
inform market participants of the precise date on which the trade execution requirement for a
particular product commences. § 37.12(a) provides that a swap becomes subject to the trade
execution requirement upon the later of the applicable deadline established under the compliance
schedule provided under § 50.25(b) or 30 days after the available-to-trade determination
submission or certification for that swap is, respectively, deemed approved under § 40.5 or
deemed certified under § 40.6.
The Commission does not have a close equivalent to § 50.25(b). However, Rule 3Ca-1
113
under the SEA119 provides that the Commission may determine, following a submission from a
clearing agency, that an SBS (or a group, category, type, or class of SBS) must be cleared. This
determination could follow a stay of the clearing requirement for additional review.
Accordingly, paragraph (a) of proposed Rule 817 would provide that an SBS transaction shall be
subject to the requirements of Section 3C(h) of the SEA upon the later of (1) a determination by
the Commission that the SBS is required to be cleared as set forth in Section 3C(a) or any later
compliance date that the Commission may establish as a term or condition of such determination
or following a stay and review of such determination pursuant to Section 3C(c) of the SEA and
Rule 3Ca-1 thereunder; and (2) 30 days after the available-to-trade determination submission or
certification for that SBS is, respectively, deemed approved under Rule 806 or deemed certified
under Rule 807.
Paragraph (b) of proposed Rule 817, modelled on § 37.12(b), would provide that a
counterparty may voluntarily comply with the trade execution requirement sooner than required
by paragraph (a).
The Commission seeks comment on the following:
92. Do you believe in general that Regulation SE should include a trade execution
compliance schedule similar to that in § 37.12? Why or why not?
93. In particular, do you agree with the language that the Commission is proposing to
adapt from § 37.12 into Rule 817? If not, what alternative language would you
suggest, and why?

119 17 CFR 240.3Ca-1.
114
VIII. Implementation of Core Principles
Section 3D(d) of the SEA120 sets forth 14 Core Principles with which SBSEFs must
comply. These provisions, with one exception, correspond to the 15 Core Principles for SEFs set
forth in Section 5h(f) of the CEA.
121
Core Principle Title CEA # SEA #
Compliance with Core Principles 1 1
Compliance with Rules 2 2
(Security-Based) Swaps Not Readily Susceptible to Manipulation 3 3
Monitoring of Trading and Trade Processing 4 4
Ability to Obtain Information 5 5
Position Limits or Accountability 6 n/a
Financial Integrity of Transactions 7 6
Emergency Authority 8 7
Timely Publication of Trading Information 9 8
Recordkeeping and Reporting 10 9
Antitrust Considerations 11 10
Conflicts of Interest 12 11
Financial Resources 13 12
System Safeguards 14 13
Designation of Chief Compliance Officer 15 14
The Commission preliminarily believes generally that it would be appropriate to closely
harmonize with the CFTC rules that implement the SEF Core Principles, although there are some
instances where close harmonization is not practicable. Where there are substantive differences
between an existing CFTC rule and an SEC-proposed rule, the Commission will note and discuss
the proposed difference and seek comment. The Commission also will note when there is not, or
at least not intended to be, a difference between the SEC rule and the analogous CFTC rule.
 120 15 U.S.C. 78c-4(d).
121 Compare 7 U.S.C. 7b-3(f) (enumerating 15 Core Principles for SEFs) with 15 U.S.C.
78c-4(d) (enumerating 14 Core Principles for SBSEFs). CEA Core Principle 6 for SEFs
(Position Limits or Accountability) has no analog in the SEA, so the numbering of the
subsequent Core Principles between the two statutes differs by one.
115
Part 37 of the CFTC’s rules includes an Appendix B, setting forth “Guidance on, and
Acceptable Practices in, Compliance with Core Principles.” The introduction to Appendix B
provides that the guidance for the Core Principle is illustrative only and “is not intended to be
used as a mandatory checklist.” Where the CFTC includes guidance and/or accepted practices
pertaining to a Core Principle for SEFs, the Commission will explain how (if at all) the
Commission proposes to incorporate the substance of these statements into Regulation SE.
A. Rule 818—Core Principle 1—Compliance with Core Principles
Core Principle 1122 requires an SBSEF, to be registered and maintain registration as an
SBSEF, to comply with the Core Principles and any requirement that the Commission may
impose by rule or regulation. Core Principle 1 also provides that an SBSEF shall have
reasonable discretion in establishing the manner in which it complies with the Core Principles.
CEA Core Principle 1123 is substantively identical.
The CFTC implemented Core Principle 1 for SEFs in Subpart B of Part 37. § 37.100
repeats the statutory text of SEF Core Principle 1. There are no other rules in Subpart B.
Proposed Rule 818 also would repeat the statutory text of the Core Principle.
The Commission seeks comment on the following:
94. Do you agree with how the Commission is proposing to implement SEA Core
Principle 1? Why or why not?
B. Rule 819—Core Principle 2—Compliance with rules
Core Principle 2124 requires an SBSEF to establish and enforce compliance with any rule

122 Section 3D(d)(1) of the SEA, 15 U.S.C. 78c-4(d)(1).
123 7 U.S.C. 7b-3(f)(1).
124 Section 3D(d)(2) of the SEA, 15 U.S.C. 78c-4(d)(2).
116
that is established by the SBSEF, including the terms and conditions of the SBS that it trades or
processes, and any limitation on access to the SBSEF. It further requires the SBSEF to establish
and enforce trading, trade processing, and participation rules that will deter abuses, and to have
the capacity to detect, investigate, and enforce those rules, including the means to provide market
participants with impartial access to the market and to capture information that may be used in
establishing whether rule violations have occurred. Finally, Core Principle 2 requires an SBSEF
to establish rules governing the operation of the facility, including rules specifying trading
procedures to be used in entering and executing orders traded or posted on the facility, including
block trades. Core Principle 2 for SEFs125 is substantively identical, except that it includes an
additional paragraph requiring a SEF to provide in its rules that, when a swap dealer or major
swap participant enters into or facilitates a swap that is subject to the mandatory clearing
requirement, the swap dealer or major swap participant shall be responsible for compliance with
the trade execution requirement.
126
1. Rules modelled on Subpart C of Part 37
The CFTC implemented Core Principle 2 for SEFs in Subpart C of Part 37. § 37.200 of
Subpart C repeats the statutory text of CEA Core Principle 2, including the paragraph not present
in SEA Core Principle 2 pertaining to swaps subject to the mandatory clearing requirement.
§ 37.201 requires a SEF to establish rules governing the operation of the facility, including, but
not limited to, rules specifying trading procedures to be followed by members and market
participants when entering and executing orders traded or posted on the SEF. § 37.201 also
 125 7 U.S.C. 7b-3(f)(2).
126 See 7 U.S.C. 7b-3(f)(2)(D).
117
requires a SEF to establish and impartially enforce compliance with the SEF’s rules, including,
but not limited to the terms and conditions of any swaps traded or processed on or through the
SEF, access to the SEF, trade practice rules, audit trail requirements, disciplinary rules, and
mandatory trading requirements.
§ 37.202 imposes access requirements on SEFs. § 37.202(a) requires a SEF to provide
any eligible contract participant (“ECP”) and any independent software vendor with impartial
access to its market(s) and market services, including any indicative quote screens or any similar
pricing data displays. Furthermore, the SEF must have criteria governing access that are
impartial, transparent, and applied in a fair and nondiscriminatory manner; procedures whereby
ECPs provide the SEF with written or electronic confirmation of their status as ECPs before
obtaining access; and comparable fee structures for ECPs and independent software vendors
receiving comparable access to, or services from, the SEF. § 37.202(b) requires a SEF, before
granting any ECP access to its facilities, to require that the ECP consent to its jurisdiction.
§ 37.202(c) requires the SEF to establish and impartially enforce rules governing any decision to
allow, deny, suspend, or permanently bar access to the SEF, including when such decisions are
made as part of a disciplinary or emergency action taken by the SEF.
§ 37.203 requires a SEF to establish and enforce trading, trade processing, and
participation rules that will deter abuses and to have the capacity to detect, investigate, and
enforce those rules. § 37.203 includes lengthy and detailed provisions relating to that goal.
§ 37.203(a) requires a SEF to prohibit, among other things, front-running, wash trading, prearranged trading (except for block trades), fraudulent trading, money passes, and any other
trading practices that the SEF deems to be abusive. § 37.203(b) requires the SEF to have
arrangements and resources to collect information and documents on both a routine and non-
118
routine basis, including the authority to examine books and records kept by the SEF’s members.
§ 37.203(c) requires the SEF to have sufficient compliance staff and resources to ensure that it
can conduct effective audit trail reviews, trade practice surveillance, market surveillance, and
real-time market monitoring. § 37.203(d) requires the SEF to maintain an automated trade
surveillance system capable of detecting potential trade practice violations, and imposes certain
performance requirements on that system. § 37.203(e) requires the SEF to conduct real-time
market monitoring of all trading activity to identify any market or system anomalies, and to have
the authority to adjust trade prices or cancel trades when necessary to mitigate market disrupting
events caused by system malfunctions. § 37.203(f) requires the SEF to establish and maintain
procedures that require its compliance staff to conduct investigations of possible rule violations
and imposes various requirements relating to those investigations.
§ 37.204 allows a SEF to contract with a regulatory services provider to assist in
complying with the supervisory functions noted above. § 37.204 also imposes requirements on
the SEF’s relationship with the regulatory services provider and provides that the SEF must
retain exclusive authority in all substantive decisions made by its regulatory service provider,
including decisions involving the cancellation of trades, the issuance of disciplinary charges
against members or market participants, and denials of access.
§ 37.205 requires a SEF to capture and retain all audit trail data necessary to detect,
investigate, and prevent customer and market abuses. Such data shall be sufficient to reconstruct
all indications of interest, requests for quotes, orders, and trades within a reasonable period of
time and to provide evidence of any violations of the rules of the swap execution facility.
§ 37.205 includes lengthy and detailed provisions relating to the elements of an acceptable audit
trail program, requirements for the transaction history database, electronic analysis capability,
119
and safe storage capability. Furthermore, § 37.205 requires a SEF to enforce its audit trail and
recordkeeping requirements through at least annual reviews of all members to verify their
compliance, and to establish a program for effective enforcement of its audit trail and
recordkeeping requirements. An effective program must identify members subject to the SEF’s
recordkeeping rules that have failed to maintain high levels of compliance with such
requirements, and impose meaningful sanctions when deficiencies are found.
§ 37.206 requires a SEF to establish trading, trade processing, and participation rules that
will deter abuses and have the capacity to enforce such rules through prompt and effective
disciplinary action, including suspension or expulsion of members or market participants that
violate the SEF’s rules. Accordingly, § 37.206 requires the SEF to establish disciplinary panels
and procedures for disciplinary hearings that meet certain enumerated requirements, and
provides that disciplinary sanctions imposed by the SEF shall be commensurate with the
violations committed and shall be clearly sufficient to deter recidivism or similar violations by
other market participants.
Appendix B to Part 37 includes detailed guidance to facilitate compliance with the rules
that implement CEA Core Principle 2. The guidance addresses, for example, the use of warning
letters by SEF compliance staff, potential conflicts of interest of the SEF’s enforcement staff, the
serving of notices of charges, a respondent’s right to representation, providing sufficient time to
answer a charge, consequences of a respondent admitting to or failing to deny a charge, right to a
hearing, settlement offers, right of appeal and appeal procedures, final decisions, summary fines
for violations of rules relating to the failure to timely submit accurate records required for
clearing or verifying each day’s transactions, and emergency disciplinary actions.
Proposed Rule 819 would implement Core Principle 2 and is adapted from Subpart C of
120
Part 37. Paragraph (a) of proposed Rule 819, like § 37.200, would repeat the statutory text of
Core Principle 2. Paragraph (b) is closely modelled on § 37.201 and would require an SBSEF to
specify trading procedures (including for block trades, if offered) and to establish and impartially
enforce compliance with the rules of the SBSEF.
Paragraph (c) of proposed Rule 819 is closely modelled on § 37.202 and would require an
SBSEF to provide any ECP and any independent software vendor with impartial access to its
market(s) and market services, including any indicative quote screens or any similar pricing data
displays. An SBSEF also would be required, among other things, to establish comparable fee
structures for ECPs and independent software vendors receiving comparable access to, or
services from the SBSEF, and to establish and impartially enforce rules governing any decision
to allow, deny, suspend, or permanently bar an ECP’s access to the SBSEF, including when a
decision is made as part of a disciplinary or emergency action taken by the SBSEF.
Paragraph (d) of proposed Rule 819 is closely modelled on § 37.203. Paragraph (d)(1) of
proposed Rule 819 would require an SBSEF to prohibit abusive trading practices generally,
enumerating certain practices in particular.127 Paragraph (d)(2) would require an SBSEF to have
arrangements and resources for effective enforcement of its rules, including the authority to
collect information and documents on both a routine and non-routine basis and to supervise its
market to determine whether a rule violation has occurred. Paragraph (d)(3) would require an
SBSEF to establish and maintain sufficient compliance staff and resources to ensure that it can

127 To promote uniformity throughout proposed Regulation SE, the Commission believes
that it is appropriate to denote all persons who have a right to participate in an SBSEF’s
market as “members.” § 37.203(a) provides that a SEF shall prohibit abusive trading
practices on its markets by members and market participants. The equivalent provision in
proposed Rule 819(d) would provide that an SBSEF shall prohibit abusive trading
practices on its markets by members (without reference to “market participants”).
121
conduct effective audit trail reviews, trade practice surveillance, market surveillance, and realtime market monitoring. Paragraph (d)(4) would require an SBSEF to maintain an automated
trade surveillance system that meets certain criteria. Paragraph (d)(5) would require real-time
market monitoring of all trading activity on the SBSEF. The SBSEF also would be required to
adjust trade prices or cancel trades when necessary to mitigate market disrupting events caused
by malfunctions in its system(s) or platform(s) or errors in orders submitted by members.
Paragraph (d)(6) is modelled on § 37.203(f), again using the same structure and rule text. Like
§ 37.203(f), proposed Rule 819(d)(6) would address investigations and investigation reports and
includes provisions relating to procedures, timeliness, when a reasonable basis does or does not
exist for finding a violation, and warning letters.128
Paragraph (e) of proposed Rule 819 is modelled on § 37.204 and would allow an SBSEF
to contract with a regulatory services provider. If it does so, the SBSEF would have to ensure
that such provider has the capacity and resources necessary to provide timely and effective
regulatory services, retain sufficient compliance staff to supervise the quality and effectiveness
of the regulatory services provided on its behalf, hold regular meetings with the regulatory
service provider, and conduct periodic reviews of the adequacy and effectiveness of services
provided on its behalf. The SBSEF would at all times remain responsible for the performance of

128 Proposed Rule 819(d)(6)(v) would provide that the rules of an SBSEF may authorize its
compliance staff to issue a warning letter to a person or entity under investigation or to
recommend that a disciplinary panel take such an action, and that no more than one
warning letter could be issued to the same person or entity found to have committed the
same rule violation within a rolling 12-month period. The first provision is derived from
the CFTC’s guidance pertaining to CEA Core Principle 2 for SEFs; the second provision
is from the text of § 37.203(f)(5).
122
any regulatory services received and retain exclusive authority in all substantive decisions made
by its regulatory service provider. Proposed Rule 819(e)(1) makes a slight modification to
§ 37.204(a)’s list of entities that can serve as a regulatory service provider.129
Paragraph (f) of proposed Rule 819 is modelled on § 37.205, using the same paragraph
structure and rule text. Paragraph (f) would require an SBSEF to capture and retain all audit trail
data necessary to detect, investigate, and prevent customer and market abuses and impose other
requirements on the SBSEF’s audit trail pertaining to the records that must be kept, electronic
analysis capability, safe-storage capability, and enforcement of the audit trail requirements.
Paragraph (g) of proposed Rule 819 is based on § 37.206 and would generally track all of
its rule text, but includes additional language derived from the Appendix B guidance that is
interwoven throughout. In converting the guidance to proposed rule text, the Commission
preliminarily believes that grouping conceptually related items together would yield the most
coherent and readable ruleset, instead of incorporating the guidance into a stand-alone section of
the rules. Accordingly, paragraph (g)(1)(i) of proposed Rule 819 is taken from § 37.206(a) and
would require an SBSEF to establish and maintain sufficient enforcement staff and resources to
effectively and promptly prosecute possible rule violations within the disciplinary jurisdiction of
the SBSEF. Paragraphs (g)(1)(ii) through (iv) are taken from the Appendix B guidance and
would provide, respectively, that:

129 Under § 37.204(a), a regulatory services provider for a SEF can be a registered futures
association, FINRA, or “another registered entity.” “Registered entity” is a term of art in
the CEA that does not exist in the SEA. Therefore, the Commission is proposing instead
that a regulatory services provider for an SBSEF can be a registered futures association
(under Section 17 of the CEA), a national securities exchange, a national securities
association (which would include FINRA), or another SBSEF.
123
• The enforcement staff of an SBSEF shall130 not include members or other persons whose
interests conflict with their enforcement duties.
• A member of the enforcement staff shall not operate under the direction or control of any
person or persons with trading privileges at the SBSEF.
• The enforcement staff of an SBSEF may operate as part of the SBSEF’s compliance
department.
Paragraph (g)(2) of proposed Rule 819 is modelled on § 37.206(b) and would require an
SBSEF to establish one or more disciplinary panels that are authorized to fulfill their obligations
under Rule 819. § 37.206(b) provides that disciplinary panels must meet the composition
requirements of Part 40. To help ensure fairness and prevent special treatment or preference of
any person or member and to provide for consistency of the makeup of members of SBSEF
major disciplinary committees and hearing panels, the Commission is proposing instead to
require the disciplinary panels established under proposed Rule 819(g)(2) to meet the
composition requirements of proposed Rule 834(d), which would apply to each major
disciplinary committee and hearing panel of an SBSEF.
131
Paragraphs (g)(3) through (8) of proposed Rule 819 have no parallel in § 37.206 itself,

130 In this bullet and the next bullet, the word used in the corresponding CFTC guidance was
“should” but the Commission is proposing the word “shall” in both places to convert the
guidance into an enforceable rule.
131 Proposed Rule 834(d) would require each SBSEF and SBS exchange to ensure that its
disciplinary processes preclude any member, or group or class of its members, from
dominating or exercising disproportionate influence on the disciplinary process, and that
each major disciplinary committee or hearing panel include sufficient different groups or
classes of its members so as to ensure fairness and to prevent special treatment or
preference for any person or member in the conduct of the responsibilities of the
committee or panel. See infra Section X.
124
but derive from the guidance in Appendix B pertaining to § 37.206, following the paragraph
structure and wording of the guidance closely. Paragraph (g)(3) would impose procedural
requirements relating to the notice of charges made to a respondent. Paragraph (g)(4) would
provide that a respondent has a right to representation. Paragraph (g)(5) would provide that a
respondent must be given adequate time to respond to any charges. Paragraph (g)(6) would state
that the rules of an SBSEF may provide that, if a respondent admits or fails to deny any of the
charges, a disciplinary panel may find that the violations alleged in the notice of charges have
been committed. Paragraph (g)(6) would further state that, if the SBSEF’s rules so provide, then:
(i) The disciplinary panel may impose a sanction for each violation found to have been
committed; (ii) The disciplinary panel shall promptly notify the respondent in writing of any
sanction to be imposed and shall advise the respondent that the respondent may request a hearing
on such sanction within the period of time, which shall be stated in the notice; and (iii) The rules
of the SBSEF may provide that, if a respondent fails to request a hearing within the period of
time stated in the notice, the respondent will be deemed to have accepted the sanction.
Paragraph (g)(7) of proposed Rule 819 would provide that, where a respondent has
requested a hearing on a charge that is denied, or on a sanction set by the disciplinary panel, the
respondent shall be given an opportunity for a hearing in accordance with the rules of the
security-based swap execution facility. Paragraph (g)(8) would address settlement offers.
Paragraph (g)(9) of proposed Rule 819 returns to the text of § 37.206(c) for provisions
regarding hearings. Paragraph (g)(9)(i) is modelled on § 37.206(c)(1) and would require an
SBSEF to have rules requiring a hearing to be fair, conducted before members of the disciplinary
panel, and promptly convened after reasonable notice to the respondent. The Commission is
proposing an additional provision, which derives from the guidance, that an SBSEF need not
125
apply the formal rules of evidence for a hearing; nevertheless, the procedures for the hearing may
not be so informal as to deny a fair hearing.
Paragraphs (g)(9)(ii) through (vi) of proposed Rule 819 are also adapted from the
guidance. Paragraph (g)(9)(ii) would bar a member of the disciplinary panel for the hearing from
having a financial, personal, or other direct interest in the matter under consideration. Paragraph
(g)(9)(iii) would address the respondent’s access to evidence in the SBSEF’s possession.
Paragraph (g)(9)(iv) would provide that the SBSEF’s enforcement and compliance staffs shall132
be parties to the hearing, and the enforcement staff shall present their case on those charges and
sanctions that are the subject of the hearing. Paragraph (g)(9)(v) would provide that the
respondent shall be entitled to appear personally at the hearing, to cross-examine any persons
appearing as witnesses at the hearing, to call witnesses, and to present such evidence as may be
relevant to the charges. Paragraph (g)(9)(vi) would provide that the SBSEF shall require persons
within its jurisdiction who are called as witnesses to participate in the hearing and produce
evidence.
Paragraph (g)(9)(vii) of proposed Rule 819 is modelled on the text of § 37.206(c)(2) and
would require that, if the respondent has requested a hearing, a copy of the hearing shall be made
and shall become a part of the record of the proceeding. Paragraph (g)(9)(vii) would not require
the record to be transcribed unless the transcript is requested by Commission staff or the
respondent, the decision is appealed pursuant to the rules of the SBSEF, or the decision is

132 The CFTC’s guidance in Appendix B that is adapted into paragraphs (g)(9)(ii) through
(vi) of proposed Rule 819 uses the word “should” here and in other similar instances.
The Commission is proposing to use the word “shall” in such instances instead.
126
reviewed by the Commission pursuant to § 201.442.133 In all other instances, a summary record
of a hearing is permitted.
Paragraph (g)(10) of proposed Rule 819 is modelled on § 37.206(d) and would provide
that, promptly following a hearing conducted in accordance with the rules of the SBSEF, the
disciplinary panel shall render a written decision based upon the weight of the evidence
contained in the record of the proceeding and shall provide a copy to the respondent. The written
decision would have to include six enumerated elements, all of which are closely modelled on
those in § 37.206(d).
Paragraph (g)(11) of proposed Rule 819 would address emergency disciplinary actions
and is drawn from the Appendix B guidance. It would provide that an SBSEF may impose a
sanction, including suspension, or take other summary action against a person or entity subject to
its jurisdiction upon a reasonable belief that such immediate action is necessary to protect the
best interest of the market place. Furthermore, any emergency disciplinary action would have to
be taken in accordance with an SBSEF’s procedures that provide for notice (if practicable),
rights for representation in all proceedings, an opportunity for a hearing as soon as reasonably
practicable, and the rendering of a written decision promptly following the hearing based upon
the weight of the evidence contained in the record. Proposed Rule 819(g)(11) seeks to balance
the need to allow an SBSEF to take summary action against the need to afford due process to

133 See infra Section XVI(E) (discussing proposed Rule 442, which would establish the right
to appeal to the Commission certain actions taken by an SBSEF, and setting out certain
procedural matters relating to any such appeal).
127
respondents.134
Paragraph (g)(12) of proposed Rule 819 also is drawn from the Appendix B guidance and
provides that, if the rules of the SBSEF permit appeals,135 the SBSEF shall establish an appellate
panel that is authorized to hear appeals. The composition of the panel would have to be
consistent with proposed Rule 834(d)136 and could not include any members of the SBSEF’s
compliance staff or any person involved in adjudicating any other stage of the same proceeding.
Promptly following the appeal or review proceeding, the appellate panel would be required to
issue a written decision and to provide a copy to the respondent.
Paragraph (g)(13) of proposed Rule 819 is adapted partly from § 37.206(e) and partly
from the Appendix B guidance. Paragraph (g)(13)(i) is drawn from § 37.206(e) and would
provide that all disciplinary sanctions imposed by an SBSEF or its disciplinary panels shall be
commensurate with the violations committed and shall be clearly sufficient to deter recidivism or
similar violations by other members. All disciplinary sanctions, including sanctions imposed
pursuant to an accepted settlement offer, would be required to take into account the respondent’s
disciplinary history. In the event of demonstrated customer harm, any disciplinary sanction

134 Compare proposed Rule 819(g)(11)(i) (allowing an SBSEF to impose a sanction,
including suspension, or take other summary action against a person or entity subject to
its jurisdiction upon a reasonable belief that such immediate action is necessary to protect
the best interest of the market place) with proposed Rule 819(g)(11)(ii)(A) (providing
that, if practicable, a respondent should be served with a notice before the action is taken,
or otherwise at the earliest possible opportunity).
135 Neither § 37.206 or the associated guidance from Appendix B requires a SEF to allow
appeals. The guidance states, rather, that a SEF’s rules “may permit” appeals and
includes certain procedural requirements only if the rules of a swap execution facility
permit appeals. The Commission is adhering to this permissive approach in this proposal
but seeks comment on whether the final rules should require an SBSEF to create an
appeals procedure.
136 See supra note 131.
128
would also be required to include full customer restitution, except where the amount of
restitution or to whom it should be provided cannot be reasonably determined. Paragraph
(g)(13)(i) is adapted from the guidance and would allow an SBSEF to adopt a summary fine
schedule for violations of rules relating to the failure to timely submit accurate records required
for clearing or verifying each day’s transactions.
The Commission preliminarily believes that combining text from § 37.206 with the
associated guidance from Appendix B provides a logical set of procedures for addressing Core
Principle 2 (Compliance with Rules), from requirements relating to enforcement staff generally
(proposed Rule 819(g)(1)); to the composition of disciplinary panels and notices of charges
(proposed Rules 819(g)(1) and (g)(2)); to rights to representation (proposed Rule 819(g)(4)),
answer to charges and admission or failure to deny charges (proposed Rules 819(g)(5) and
(g)(6)), denial of charges and right to a hearing (proposed Rule 819(g)(7)), settlement offers
(proposed Rule 819(g)(8)); and, finally, hearings (proposed Rule 819(g)(9)), decisions (proposed
Rule 819(g)(10)), emergency disciplinary actions (proposed Rule 819(g)(11)), right to appeal
(proposed Rule 819(g)(12)), and disciplinary sanctions (proposed Rule 819(g)(13)).
The Commission recognizes that a set of rules that govern compliance and enforcement
matters for SBSEFs could, in the abstract, differ in a number of details from the rules adopted by
the CFTC in Subpart C of Part 37 and still plausibly satisfy the requirements of Core Principle 2.
However, in light of the baseline set by the CFTC’s rules, the Commission is concerned that
implementing rules for SBSEFs having major or even minor differences with the rules applicable
to SEFs could increase compliance costs and cause confusion for dually registered SEF/SBSEFs
and market participants. This would particularly be the case if a potential violation involved a
rule that was not specific to the swap or SBS market, but rather involved member conduct
129
generally. No regulatory purpose would be served if the SEF/SBSEF had to pursue one cause of
action against a member pursuant to a CFTC rule and a slightly different cause of action pursuant
to an SEC rule, for the same underlying facts.
The Commission seeks comment on the following:
95. Do you agree generally with the manner in which the Commission is proposing to
implement Core Principle 2? Why or why not?
96. In particular, do you agree with the proposed access requirements in Rule 819(c)?
Why or why not? Do you see differences between the swap and SBS markets that
warrant different requirements for access to a SEF than to an SBSEF? If so, please
describe.
97. Do you see differences between the swap and SBS markets that warrant different
audit trail requirements or trade surveillance capability for SBSEFs than for SEFs? If
so, please describe.
98. Do you believe that SBSEFs, like SEFs, should be able to utilize regulatory service
providers? What entities currently serve as regulatory service providers for SEFs?
Do you believe that the types of regulatory service providers that could be utilized by
SBSEFs under proposed Rule 819(e)(1) are appropriate? If not, what other regulatory
service providers should be permitted?
99. Do you agree with how the Commission is proposing to implement requirements for
disciplinary procedures and sanctions in proposed Rule 819(g)? Why or why not?
100. In particular, do you agree with the manner in which the Commission is proposing
to incorporate significant portions of the Appendix B guidance into proposed Rule
819(g)? Why or why not? Are there provisions from the guidance that the
130
Commission is proposing to incorporate that you believe should be revised or omitted
entirely? If so, please describe. Are there provisions from the guidance that the
Commission has not proposed to incorporate but that you believe should be
incorporated? If so, please describe.
101. Do existing SEFs treat the Appendix B guidance as if it were mandatory? By
converting the non-binding guidance applicable to SEFs into formal rules that would
apply to SBSEFs, would dually registered entities be compelled to deviate from their
present practices? If so, please describe.
102. Do you believe that proposed Rule 819(g)(12) should be revised to require an
SBSEF to permit appeals of enforcement decisions to an appellate panel established
by the SBSEF, despite the fact that neither Subpart C of Part 37 nor the CFTC’s
associated guidance requires appeals? Why or why not?
2. Provisions of Rule 819 adapted from other SEF requirements
Proposed Rule 819 includes four paragraphs—(h), (i), (j), and (k)—that are not derived
from Subpart C of Part 37, which directly implements CEA Core Principle 2, or from the
associated guidance in Appendix B to Part 37. Instead, these four paragraphs are modelled on
requirements for SEFs located in other parts of the CFTC’s rules. Because these requirements
fall under the general heading of “Compliance with Rules,” the Commission is proposing them
as part of Rule 819, which implements SEA Core Principle 2.
a. Rule 819(h)—Activities of SBSEF’s employees, governing
board members, committee members, and consultants
Paragraph (h) of proposed Rule 819 generally would prohibit persons who are employees
of an SBSEF, or who otherwise might have access to confidential information because of their
131
role with the SBSEF, from improperly utilizing that information. Proposed Rule 819(h) is
modelled on § 1.59 of the CFTC’s rules, which requires an SRO (which term, under § 1.3 of the
CFTC regulations, includes a SEF) to place restrictions on trading by its governing board
members, committee members, consultants, and employees and to prohibit any such person from
disclosing any material, non-public information obtained as a result of their official duties with
the SRO.
In particular, § 1.59(b)(1)(i) requires an SRO to maintain in effect rules that, at a
minimum, prohibit employees of the SRO from trading, directly or indirectly, in:
• Any “commodity interest”137 traded on or cleared by the employing contract market, SEF,
or clearing organization;
• Any “related commodity interest”138;
• A commodity interest traded on a contract market or SEF or cleared by a DCO other than
the employing SRO if the employee has access to material, non-public information
 137 See § 1.59(a)(8) (defining “commodity interest” to mean “any commodity futures,
commodity option or swap contract traded on or subject to the rules of a contract market,
a swap execution facility or linked exchange, or cleared by a derivatives clearing
organization, or cash commodities traded on or subject to the rules of a board of trade
which has been designated as a contract market”).
138 See § 1.59(a)(9) (defining “related commodity interest” to mean “any commodity interest
which is traded on or subject to the rules of a contract market, swap execution facility,
linked exchange, or other board of trade, exchange, or market, or cleared by a derivatives
clearing organization, other than the self-regulatory organization by which a person is
employed, and with respect to which: (i) such employing self-regulatory organization
has recognized or established intermarket spread margins or other special margin
treatment between that other commodity interest and a commodity interest which is
traded on or subject to the rules of the employing self-regulatory organization; or (ii) such
other self-regulatory organization has recognized or established intermarket spread
margins or other special margin treatment with another commodity interest as to which
the person has access to material, nonpublic information”).
132
concerning such commodity interest;
• A commodity interest traded on or cleared by a “linked exchange” if the employee has
access to material, non-public information concerning such commodity interest.
The Commission is proposing to adapt § 1.59(b)(1) into Regulation SE in a simplified
way. The Commission preliminarily believes that, in the SBS market, the policy goals of the
rule can be achieved without the complexities of the CFTC definitions of “commodity interest”
and “related commodity interest.” Paragraph (h)(2)(i) of proposed Rule 819 would require an
SBSEF to maintain in effect rules that, at a minimum, prohibit an employee of the SBSEF from
trading, directly or indirectly, any “covered interest.” Proposed Rule (h)(1)(i) would define
“covered interest” to mean, with respect to an SBSEF: an SBS that trades on the SBSEF; a
security of an issuer that has issued a security that underlies an SBS that is listed on the SBSEF;
or a derivative based on a security that falls within the immediately preceding prong. The
Commission preliminarily believes that the opportunity to observe order submission and trading
in an SBS on an SBSEF could yield material non-public information about the future
performance not just of that SBS, but of all securities issued by that entity. The single-name
CDS market, in particular, is a market for assessing the creditworthiness of particular issuers.
Non-public information derived from activity on the SBSEF pertaining to the market’s
assessment of an issuer’s creditworthiness is likely to be material to the markets for that issuer’s
cash securities as well as to markets for derivatives based on the issuer’s cash securities (e.g.,
single-stock options).
Paragraph (h)(2)(ii), modelled on § 1.59(b)(1)(ii), would prohibit an SBSEF employee
from disclosing to any other person any material non-public information which such employee
obtains as a result of their employment at the SBSEF, and where such employee has or should
133
have a reasonable expectation that the information disclosed may assist another person in trading
any covered interest. In addition, paragraph (h)(2)(ii), like § 1.59(b)(1)(ii), would provide an
exception for disclosures made in the course of an employee’s duties, or disclosures made to
another SBSEF, court of competent jurisdiction, or representative of any agency or department
of the federal or state government acting in their official capacity.
Paragraph (h)(3) of Rule 819, modelled on § 1.59(b)(2), would allow an SBSEF to adopt
rules setting forth circumstances under which exemptions from the employee trading prohibition
may be granted. In particular, paragraph (h)(3) would include the following possible carve-outs
from the employee trading prohibition: (1) participation by an employee in a “pooled investment
vehicle” where the employee has no direct or indirect control with respect to transactions
executed for or on behalf of such vehicle; (2) trading by an employee in a derivative based on
such a pooled investment vehicle; (3) trading by an employee in a derivative based on an index
in which no covered interest constitutes more than 10% of the index; and (4) trading by an
employee under circumstances enumerated in rules which the SBSEF determines are not
contrary to applicable law, the public interest, or just and equitable principles of trade. The first
and the fourth carve-outs listed above are comparable to those listed in § 1.59(b)(2). The
Commission is proposing to include the second and third carve-outs to permit an SBSEF
employee to trade derivatives that provide indirect exposure to a covered interest where the
exposure to the covered interest is sufficiently diluted. In such cases, it would be unlikely that
the employee would be using material non-public information about the covered interest to gain
an unfair advantage when trading the derivative.
The Commission is proposing to depart from the CFTC definition of “pooled investment
134
vehicle”139 to adapt it for the SBS and securities markets. Proposed Rule (h)(1)(ii) would define
“pooled investment vehicle” to mean an investment company registered under the Investment
Company Act of 1940 in which no covered interest constitutes more than 10% of the investment
company’s assets. Thus, under this definition, if an SBSEF were to list a single-name CDS on
company XYZ, a “pooled investment vehicle” would include a broad-based mutual fund or ETF
that contains a security issued by company XYZ, assuming that the XYZ security does not
exceed 10% of the fund’s holdings. The proposed 10% limit on a covered interest’s composition
of the fund is designed to permit SBSEF employees to trade most index-based mutual funds and
ETFs that contain covered interests, except those where a component of the fund becomes
sufficiently large that material non-public information about an issuer derived from activity on
the SBSEF could provide an unfair advantage to an SBSEF employee when trading that fund.
Finally, the Commission notes that, under proposed Rule 819(h)(3)—as with
§ 1.59(b)(2)—the exemptions from the trading restrictions would not be automatically available
to SBSEF employees. Proposed Rule 819(h)(3) still would require the SBSEF to adopt rules that
set forth circumstances under which exemptions from the trading prohibition may be granted.
Furthermore, proposed Rule 819(h)(3), which is modelled on § 1.59(b)(2), would state that any
exemption must be administered by the SBSEF “on a case-by-case basis.”
Paragraph (h)(4) of proposed Rule 819, like § 1.59(d),140 would address prohibited

139 See § 1.59(a)(10) (defining “pooled investment vehicle” to mean “a trading vehicle
organized and operated as a commodity pool within the meaning of § 4.10(d) of this
chapter, and whose units of participation have been registered under the Securities Act of
1933, or a trading vehicle for which § 4.5 of this chapter makes available relief from
regulation as a commodity pool operator, i.e., registered investment companies, insurance
company separate accounts, bank trust funds, and certain pension plans”).
140 § 1.59(c) applies only to national futures associations and is not considered here.
135
conduct not just of employees of an SBSEF, but also of governing board members, committee
members, and consultants of the SBSEF. Paragraph (h)(4)(i)(A) is modelled on § 1.59(d)(1)(i)
and would prohibit any employee, governing board member, committee member, or consultant
of the SBSEF from trading for such person’s own account, or for or on behalf of any other
account, in any covered interest on the basis of any material, non-public information obtained
through special access related to the performance of such person’s official duties as an employee,
governing board member, committee member, or consultant. Paragraph (h)(4)(i)(B), modelled
on § 1.59(d)(1)(ii), would prohibit any employee, governing board member, committee member,
or consultant of the SBSEF from disclosing for any purpose inconsistent with the performance of
such person’s official duties as an employee, governing board member, committee member, or
consultant any material, non-public information obtained through special access related to the
performance of such duties. Paragraph (h)(4)(ii), modelled on § 1.59(d)(2), would provide that
no person shall trade for such person’s own account, or for or on behalf of any other account, in
any covered interest on the basis of any material, non-public information that such person knows
was obtained in violation of paragraph (h)(4) of this section from an employee, governing
board member, committee member, or consultant.
The Commission preliminarily believes that persons who have professional duties with
an SBSEF should not trade on material non-public information derived from the SBSEF or
improperly disclose that information to third parties, and therefore that harmonizing with the
comparable CFTC rule as closely as practicable, taking into account the difference in products
subject to the respective jurisdictions of the SEC and CFTC, is an appropriate means of
furthering that policy goal. If the Commission adopts Rule 819(h) in substantially the same form
as proposed herein, dually registered SEF/SBSEFs would be able to utilize the same rules and
136
procedures for complying with Rule 819(h) as they do for § 1.59. The Commission recognizes
that the scope of assets under restriction would differ in Rule 819(h) than in § 1.59, as reflected
in the SEC’s use of the term “covered interest” rather than “commodity interest” in the
analogous CFTC provisions, as well as the significant differences in the potential exemptions
from the trading restriction (including in the “pooled investment vehicle” definition).
Nevertheless, SBS are different from swaps, so the material non-public information that can be
obtained from observing order submission and SBS trading on an SBSEF is different from the
material non-public information that can be obtained from observing order submission and swap
trading on a SEF. The Commission preliminarily believes, therefore, that it is appropriate for
Rule 819(h) to utilize a definition of “covered interest” to denote the scope of the trading
restrictions in the proposed rule—and a definition of “pooled investment vehicle” to denote the
scope of one of the potential exemptions from those restrictions—that is customized for the SBS
and securities markets.
The Commission seeks comment on the following:
103. Do you believe in general that the Commission should incorporate into
Regulation SE a rule that restricts how persons with official duties at an SBSEF may
utilize information that they obtain in the course of their official duties? Why or why
not?
104. Do you agree with the specific language proposed by the Commission to adapt
§ 1.59 into proposed Rule 819(h)? If not, how would you revise the proposed rule?
105. In particular, do you agree with the Commission’s proposed definition of
“covered interest”? Why or why not? Do you believe that the term “covered
interest” should be expanded to include securities underlying an index swap and other
137
securities issued by an issuer whose securities underlie an index swap that trade on a
dually registered SEF/SBSEF? Why or why not?
106. Do you agree with the proposed potential exemptions from the trading restrictions
in proposed Rule 819(h)(3)? For example, do you believe in general that an SBSEF
should be permitted to allow its employees, governing board members, committee
members, and consultants to hold covered interests through pooled investment
vehicles? Why or why not?
107. Do you agree with the Commission’s proposed definition of “pooled investment
vehicle”? Why or why not? Do you agree with the Commission’s proposed
requirement that no covered interest may constitute more than 10% of the pooled
investment vehicle? Why or why not? If you believe another threshold would be
more appropriate, please justify that threshold.
108. Are there additional provisions of § 1.59 that the Commission has omitted but
which you believe should be incorporated into Regulation SE? If so, which
provisions and why?
b. Rule 819(i)—Service on SBSEF governing boards or
committees by persons with disciplinary histories
Paragraph (i) of proposed Rule 819 would bar persons with specified disciplinary
histories from serving on the governing board or committees of an SBSEF and impose certain
other duties on the SBSEF associated with that fundamental requirement. Proposed Rule 819(i)
is modelled on § 1.63 of the CFTC’s rules, which imposes similar requirements in connection
with SROs (which term, under the CEA, includes SEFs).
§ 1.63(b) requires each SRO to maintain in effect rules that render a person ineligible to
138
serve on its disciplinary committees, arbitration panels, oversight panels, or governing board141
who meets any of six enumerated criteria. These criteria generally relate to a disciplinary
offense having been committed by that person within the past three years. While § 1.63(b)
requires the SRO to implement rules imposing a bar, § 1.63(c) in addition imposes a bar on such
persons directly, stating that no person may serve on a disciplinary committee, arbitration panel,
oversight panel or governing board of an SRO if such person is subject to any of the conditions
listed in § 1.63(b). § 1.63(d) requires an SRO to maintain, keep current, and provide to the
CFTC and the public a list of the rule violations which constitute disciplinary offenses that
would trigger the bar in § 1.63. § 1.63(e) requires an SRO to submit to the CFTC, within 30
days of the end of each calendar year, a certified list of any persons who have been removed
from its disciplinary committees, arbitration panels, oversight panels, or governing board
pursuant to § 1.63 during the prior year.
Paragraph (i) of proposed Rule 819 is closely modelled on § 1.63. Paragraph (i)(1), like
§ 1.63(b), would require an SBSEF to maintain rules142 that render a person ineligible to serve on

141 § 1.63 uses the term “governing board” throughout. Certain other CFTC rules that the
Commission is proposing to adapt into Regulation SE use “board of directors” to denote
the same concept. As noted above, the Commission is proposing to utilize the term
“governing board” throughout Regulation SE, even when the parallel CFTC rule on
which an SEC rule is based uses “board of directors.” See supra note 29.
142 § 1.63(b), in relevant part, requires a SEF to maintain rules that have been submitted to
the Commission pursuant to Section 5c(c) of the CEA and Part 40 of the CFTC’s rules.
As noted above, the Commission is proposing to adapt §§ 40.5 (Voluntary submission of
rules for Commission review and approval) and 40.6 (Self-certification of rules) into
proposed Rules 806 and 807, respectively. Therefore, proposed Rule 819(i)(1) would
require an SBSEF to maintain in effect rules which have been submitted to
the Commission pursuant to Rules 806 or 807.
139
its disciplinary committees,143 arbitration panels, oversight panels,144 or governing boards who
falls into any of six enumerated criteria, all of which are modelled closely on the criteria in
§ 1.63(b).145 Paragraph (i)(2), modelled on § 1.63(c), would impose a direct bar on any person
from serving on a disciplinary committee, arbitration panel, oversight panel, or governing board

143 Proposed Rule 802(e) would define “disciplinary committee” as any person or committee
of persons, or any subcommittee thereof, that is authorized by an SBSEF or SBS
exchange to issue disciplinary charges, to conduct disciplinary proceedings, to settle
disciplinary charges, to impose disciplinary sanctions, or to hear appeals thereof in cases
involving any violation of the rules of the SBSEF or SBS exchange, except those cases
where the person or committee is authorized summarily to impose minor penalties for
violating rules regarding decorum, attire, the timely submission of accurate records for
clearing or verifying each day’s transactions, or other similar activities. The CFTC rules
contain two slightly different definitions of “disciplinary committee” that appear in
§ 1.63(a)(2) and § 1.69(a)(1), respectively. Because the definition in § 1.69(a)(1) is more
comprehensive, the Commission is modelling its proposed definition of “disciplinary
committee” on § 1.69(a)(1) rather than on § 1.63(a)(2). The Commission is locating the
definition in proposed Rule 802, since the term is used by multiple rules in Regulation
SE.
144 Proposed Rule 802(s) would define “oversight panel” as any panel, or any subcommittee
thereof, authorized by an SBSEF or SBS exchange to recommend or establish policies or
procedures with respect to the surveillance, compliance, rule enforcement, or disciplinary
responsibilities of the SBSEF or SBS exchange. The CFTC’s definitions of “oversight
panel” are contained in § 1.63(a)(4) and § 1.69(a)(4), respectively. Because the
definition in § 1.69(a)(4) is more comprehensive, the Commission is modelling its
proposed definition of “oversight panel” on § 1.69(a)(4) rather than on § 1.63(a)(4). As
with the definition of “disciplinary committee,” the Commission is locating the definition
of “oversight panel” in proposed Rule 802, since the term is used by multiple rules in
Regulation SE.
145 § 1.63(b)(5) provides that one criterion for the bar would be that the person in question is
subject to or has had imposed on him within the prior three years a CFTC registration
revocation or suspension in any capacity for any reason, or has been convicted within the
prior three years of any of the felonies listed in Section 8a(2)(D)(ii) through (iv) of the
CEA. Since the SEC is not subject to the CEA and cannot cross-reference those
provisions, the Commission is proposing for the equivalent criterion in Rule 819(i)(1)(v)
that a person would be barred for having been convicted within the prior three years of
any felony, without limitation on the type of felony.
140
of an SBSEF who meets any of the six criteria enumerated in proposed Rule 819(i)(1).
Paragraph (i)(3), modelled on § 1.63(d), would require an SBSEF to submit to the Commission a
schedule listing the rule violations which constitute disciplinary offenses that would trigger the
bar and, to the extent necessary to reflect revisions, would have to submit an amended schedule
within 30 days of the end of each calendar year. The SBSEF would be required to maintain and
keep current this schedule and post it on its website so that it is in a public place designed to
provide notice to members and otherwise ensure its availability to the general public. Paragraph
(i)(4), like § 1.63(e), would require an SBSEF to submit to the Commission within 30 days of the
end of each calendar year a certified list of any persons who have been removed from its
disciplinary committees, arbitration panels, oversight panels, or governing board pursuant to
Rule 819(i) during the prior year. Paragraph (i)(5), modelled on § 1.63(f), would provide that,
whenever an SBSEF finds by final decision that a person has committed a disciplinary offense
and such finding makes such person ineligible to serve on that SBSEF’s disciplinary committees,
arbitration panels, oversight panels, or governing board, the SBSEF shall inform the Commission
of that finding and the length of the ineligibility, in a form and manner specified by the
Commission.
Paragraph (i)(6) of proposed Rule 819(i) would define the terms “arbitration panel,”
“disciplinary offense,” and “final decision” which are used in proposed Rule 819(i).146 These

146 Proposed Rule 819(i)(6)(i) would define “arbitration panel” as any person or panel
empowered by an SBSEF to arbitrate disputes involving the SBSEF’s members or their
customers. Proposed Rule 819(i)(6)(ii) would define “disciplinary offense” as: any
violation of the rules of an SBSEF, except a violation resulting in fines aggregating to
less than $5000 within a calendar year involving decorum or attire, financial
requirements, or reporting or recordkeeping; any rule violation which involves fraud,
141
definitions are closely modelled on those provided in § 1.63(a).147
The Commission preliminarily believes that it is appropriate to bar persons with
inappropriate disciplinary histories from serving on the disciplinary committees, arbitration
panels, oversight panels, or governing board of an SBSEF, and that closely modelling a rule in
Regulation SE on § 1.63 would be an appropriate means of furthering that policy goal. The
requirements of § 1.63 should be well understood by SEFs, who have been complying with them
for several years, and incorporating similar requirements into Regulation SE should impose few
if any additional costs on dually registered SEF/SBSEFs. The Commission preliminarily
believes, in particular, that establishing criteria for the bar that are as similar as possible to the
CFTC’s criteria would avoid a situation where a person is ineligible under one agency’s rules to
serve on a disciplinary committee, arbitration panel, oversight panel, or the governing board, but
would be eligible under the other agency’s rules.
The Commission seeks comment on the following:
109. Do you believe in general that Regulation SE should include a rule that prohibits
persons having an inappropriate disciplinary history from serving on the disciplinary

deceit, or conversion or results in a suspension or expulsion; any violation of the SEA or
the Commission’s rules thereunder; or any failure to exercise supervisory responsibility
when such failure is itself a violation of either the rules of the SBSEF, the SEA, or the
Commission’s rules thereunder. Proposed Rule 819(i)(6)(iii) would define “final
decision” as a decision of an SBSEF which cannot be further appealed within the SBSEF,
is not subject to the stay of the Commission or a court of competent jurisdiction, and has
not been reversed by the Commission or any court of competent jurisdiction; or any
decision by an administrative law judge, a court of competent jurisdiction, or
the Commission which has not been stayed or reversed.
147 Since these terms are used only in proposed Rule 819(i) and not elsewhere in Regulation
SE, the Commission is defining them in proposed Rule 819(i) and not the omnibus
definitions rule in Regulation SE (Rule 802).
142
committees, arbitration panels, oversight panels, or governing board of an SBSEF?
Why or why not?
110. In particular, do you agree with the specific language proposed by the
Commission to adapt § 1.63 into proposed Rule 819(i)? If not, how would you revise
the rule?
111. Are there additional provisions of § 1.63 that the Commission has not adapted
into proposed Rule 819(i) but which you believe should be incorporated? If so,
which provisions and why?
112. Proposed Rule 819(i)(1)(iv) would require an SBSEF to have rules that render a
person ineligible to serve on its disciplinary committees, arbitration panels, oversight
panels, or governing board if that person is subject to an agreement with the
Commission, an SBSEF, or an SRO not to apply for registration with the Commission
or membership in any SRO. Should similar agreements with any other types of
entities be included in the ineligibility provision of proposed Rule 819(i)(1)(iv)? For
example, should registered futures associations such as the NFA be included in this
list? Why or why not?
c. Rule 819(j)—Notification of final disciplinary action involving
financial harm to a customer
Paragraph (j) of proposed Rule 819 is a modified version of § 1.67 of the CFTC’s rules.
§ 1.67(b) provides, in relevant part, that upon any final disciplinary action148 in which a contract

148 See § 1.67(a) (defining “final disciplinary action” as any decision by or settlement with a
contract market or swap execution facility in a disciplinary matter which cannot be
further appealed at the contract market or swap execution facility, is not subject to the
143
market or SEF finds that a member has committed a rule violation that involved a transaction for
a customer,149 whether executed or not, and that resulted in harm to the customer, the contract
market or SEF must promptly provide notice of the disciplinary action to the futures commission
merchant or other registrant. The futures commission merchant or other registrant that receives
the notice must promptly provide written notice of the disciplinary action to the customer as
disclosed on its books and records. Such written notice must include the principal facts of the
disciplinary action and a statement that the contract market or SEF has found that the member
has committed a rule violation that involved a transaction for the customer, whether executed or
not, and that resulted in financial harm to the customer.
Paragraph (j)(1) of proposed Rule 819 is designed to replicate for SBSEFs the
fundamental duty of § 1.67 and would provide that, upon any final disciplinary action in which
an SBSEF finds that a member has committed a rule violation that involved a transaction for
a customer, whether executed or not, and that resulted in financial harm to the customer, the
SBSEF must promptly provide written notice of the disciplinary action to the member. In
addition, the SBSEF would be required to have established a rule pursuant to Rule 806 or 807

stay of the Commission or a court of competent jurisdiction, and has not been reversed by
the Commission or any court of competent jurisdiction).
149 See § 1.3 (defining “customer” as any person who uses a futures commission merchant,
introducing broker, commodity trading advisor, or commodity pool operator as an agent
in connection with trading in any commodity interest; Provided, however, an owner or
holder of a proprietary account as defined in this section shall not be deemed to be a
customer within the meaning of Section 4d of the CEA, the regulations that implement
Sections 4d and 4f of the CEA and § 1.35, and such an owner or holder of such a
proprietary account shall otherwise be deemed to be a customer within the meaning of the
CEA and §§ 1.37 and 1.46 and all other sections of these rules, regulations, and orders
which do not implement Sections 4d and 4f of the CEA).
144
that requires a member that receives such a notice to promptly provide that notice to the
customer, as disclosed on the member’s books and records.150 Paragraph (j)(2) would provide
that the written notice must include the principal facts of the disciplinary action and a statement
that the SBSEF has found that the member has committed a rule violation that involved a
transaction for the customer, whether executed or not, and that resulted in financial harm to
the customer.
Paragraph (j)(3) of proposed Rule 819 would provide definitions for two terms used in
Rule 819(j). The proposed definition for “final disciplinary action” is closely modelled on the
CFTC’s definition in § 1.67(a).151 The proposed definition of “customer” is only loosely
modelled on the definition of “customer” provided in § 1.3, which includes complexities
deriving from the CEA that the Commission does not believe are necessary or appropriate to
adapt into a rule that applies to SBSEFs.152 The Commission is proposing to define “customer”
in proposed Rule 819(j)(3)(i) as a person that utilizes an agent in connection with trading on an
SBSEF.

150 The provision on which proposed Rule 819(j)(1)(i)(B) is based, § 1.67(b)(1)(ii), requires
a futures commission merchant or other registrant that receives such a notice to forward it
to the injured customer. Because of differences in the respective agencies’ statutory
authority, the Commission is proposing to require the SBSEF to establish a rule that
requires the relevant member to forward the notice, not to propose a Commission rule
that would impose such a duty on the member directly.
151 See proposed Rule 819(j)(3)(ii) (defining “final disciplinary action” as any decision by or
settlement with an SBSEF in a disciplinary matter which cannot be further appealed at
the SBSEF, is not subject to the stay of the Commission or a court of competent
jurisdiction, and has not been reversed by the Commission or any court of competent
jurisdiction).
152 The Commission notes, finally, that the definitions of “customer” and “final disciplinary
action” would apply only within proposed Rule 819(j), so they are not included in the
omnibus definitions rule for proposed Regulation SE (Rule 802).
145
The Commission preliminarily believes that, if an SBSEF member commits a rule
violation that involved a transaction for the customer and financial harm to the customer results,
the customer should be apprised of that fact. The Commission preliminarily believes, therefore,
that closely modelling a rule in Regulation SE on § 1.67 would be an appropriate means of
furthering that policy goal. The requirements of § 1.67 should be well understood by SEFs, who
have been complying with them for several years, and incorporating similar requirements into
Regulation SE should impose lower compliance costs on dually registered SEF/SBSEFs.
The Commission seeks comment on the following:
113. Do you believe in general that Regulation SE should include a rule designed to
provide a customer of an SBSEF member notice if the member commits a violation of
an SBSEF rule that results in harm to the customer? Why or why not?
114. In particular, do you agree with the specific language proposed by the
Commission to adapt § 1.67 into proposed Rule 819(j)? If not, how would you revise
that language?
115. Do you agree with the proposed definition of “customer” in proposed Rule
819(j)? If not, how would you revise it?
d. Rule 819(k)—Designation of agent for non-U.S. member
Paragraph (k) of proposed Rule 819 would require non-U.S. persons who trade on an
SBSEF to have an agent for service process, which could be an agent of its own choosing or, by
default, the SBSEF. Proposed Rule 819(k) is modelled on § 15.05(i) of the CFTC’s rules, which
concerns the designation of agents for foreign persons participating on “reporting markets,” a
146
category in the CFTC’s rules that includes SEFs.153 With respect to SEFs, § 15.05(i) provides
that a SEF that permits a foreign trader to effect contracts, agreements, or transactions on the
SEF shall be deemed to be the agent of the foreign trader with respect to any such contracts,
agreements, or transactions executed by the foreign trader. § 15.05(i) further provides that
service or delivery of any communication issued by or on behalf of the CFTC to the SEF shall
constitute valid and effective service upon the foreign trader, and that a SEF that has been served
with, or to which there has been delivered, a communication issued by or on behalf of the CFTC
to a foreign trader shall transmit the communication promptly and in a manner which is
reasonable under the circumstances, or in a manner specified by the CFTC in the
communication, to the foreign trader.
Paragraph (i)(1) of § 15.05 provides, with respect to SEFs, that it shall be unlawful for a
SEF to permit a foreign trader to effect contracts on the SEF unless the SEF has informed the
foreign trader of the requirements of § 15.05. Paragraph (i)(2) of § 15.05 permits a foreign trader
to appoint its own agent for service of process if it provides a copy of the agency agreement to
the SEF, and the SEF files the agreement with the CFTC. Paragraph (i)(3) of § 15.05 provides
that the foreign trader would have to notify the CFTC immediately if that agreement is no longer
in effect.
Paragraph (k)(1) of proposed Rule 819 is modelled on § 15.05(i) and would provide that
an SBSEF that admits a non-U.S. person as a member shall be deemed to be the agent of the

153 A “reporting market” is defined in § 15.00(q) to mean a DCM or registered entity under
Section 1a(40) of the CEA. The term “registered entity” as defined in Section 1a(40) of
the CEA includes SEFs, among other entities.
147
“non-U.S. member”154 with respect to any SBS executed by the non-U.S. member. Under
proposed Rule 819(k)(1), service or delivery of any communication issued by or on behalf of the
Commission to the SBSEF shall constitute valid and effective service upon the non-U.S.
member. If an SBSEF is served with a communication issued by or on behalf of the Commission
to a non-U.S. member, the SBSEF would be required to transmit the communication to the nonU.S. member. Paragraph (k)(2) of proposed Rule 819 is modelled on § 15.05(i)(1) and would
provide that it shall be unlawful for an SBSEF to permit a non-U.S. member to execute SBS
transactions on the facility unless the SBSEF informs the non-U.S. member in writing of the
requirements of proposed Rule 819(k).
Paragraph (k)(3) of proposed Rule 819 is modelled on § 15.05(i)(2) and would permit a
non-U.S. member of an SBSEF to utilize an agent for service of process other than the SBSEF.
The non-U.S. member would have to provide a copy of its agreement with the alternate agent to
the SBSEF, and the SBSEF would then have to file the agreement with the Commission, before
executing any transaction on the SBSEF. Paragraph (k)(4) of proposed Rule 819, modelled on
§ 15.05(i)(3), would require the non-U.S. member to notify the Commission if the agency
agreement is no longer in effect.
The Commission preliminarily believes that, for an SBSEF to have an effective

154 “Non-U.S. member” would be a defined term in proposed Rule 819(k) that does not
appear in § 15.05 of the CFTC’s rules but which, the Commission preliminarily believes,
appropriately conveys the meaning of the CFTC rule for purposes of SBSEFs in proposed
Rule 819(k). A foreign trader that executes contracts on a trading platform such as an
SBSEF must be a member of that platform. Therefore, to promote uniformity throughout
Regulation SE, the Commission is using the term “member” for this concept.
Furthermore, the Commission has defined the term “U.S. person” for purposes of the
cross-border application of its Title VII rules— see Rule 3a71-3(a)(4), § 240.3a71-3(a)(4)
—and thus is proposing to define “non-U.S. member” in Rule 802 as “a member of a
security-based swap execution facility that is not a U.S. person.”
148
regulatory program and thereby comply with Core Principle 2 (Compliance with Rules), the
SBSEF must have jurisdiction over all of its members, including members who are not U.S.
persons. Proposed Rule 819(k) would further an SBSEF’s ability to ensure compliance by its
non-U.S. members with its rules by requiring each non-U.S. member of the SBSEF to have an
agent for service of process, whether an agent of its own choosing that has been disclosed to the
SBSEF and the Commission or, as a default, the SBSEF itself. This would eliminate any
question of how to provide valid notice to a non-U.S. member of any proceedings involving
potential rule violations.
The Commission preliminarily believes that the CFTC has adequately addressed these
concerns with § 15.05(i), and therefore that proposed Rule 819 should include provisions
adapted from § 15.05(i) for application to SBSEFs. If the Commission ultimately adopts Rule
819(k) in the same or similar form as it is proposed, non-U.S. members of dually registered
SEF/SBSEFs that trade both swaps and SBS should already be in compliance with these
requirements.
The Commission seeks comment on the following:
116. Do you believe in general that Regulation SE should include a provision making
an SBSEF the default agent for service of process for its non-U.S. members? Why or
why not?
117. Do you agree with the specific language proposed by the Commission to adapt
§ 15.05(i) into proposed Rule 819(k)? If not, how would you revise the rule?
118. Are there additional provisions of § 15.05 that the Commission has omitted but
which you believe should be incorporated into proposed Rule 819(k)? If so, which
provisions and why?
149
119. Do you anticipate that SBSEFs will have any non-U.S. members? Do you believe
that proposed Rule 819(k) will even be necessary?
120. Do you agree with the proposed definition of “non-U.S. member” in Rule 802? If
not, how would you revise it?
C. Rule 820—Core Principle 3—SBS not readily susceptible to manipulation
Core Principle 3155 provides that an SBSEF may permit trading only in SBS that are not
readily susceptible to manipulation. CEA Core Principle 3 for SEFs is substantively identical.156
The CFTC implemented Core Principle 3 in Subpart D of Part 37. § 37.300 of Subpart D
repeats the statutory text of CEA Core Principle 3. § 37.301 provides that, for a SEF to
demonstrate its compliance with the core principle, it must, at the time it submits a new swap
contract pursuant to Part 40, provide the applicable information as set forth in Appendix C to
Part 38 (Demonstration of Compliance That a Contract is not Readily Susceptible to
Manipulation).157 § 37.301 also states that a SEF may refer to the guidance provided in
Appendix B of Part 37, which provides in relevant part that, when identifying a reference price, a

155 Section 3D(d)(3) of the SEA, 15 U.S.C. 78c-4(d)(3).
156 See Section 5h(f)(3) of the CEA, 7 U.S.C. 7b-3(f)(3).
157 Appendix C to Part 38 provides, inter alia, that careful consideration should be given to
the potential for manipulation or distortion of the cash settlement price of a swap, as well
as the reliability of that price as an indicator of cash market values. Appropriate
consideration also should be given to the commercial acceptability, public availability,
and timeliness of the price series that is used to calculate the cash settlement price.
Documentation demonstrating that the settlement price index is a reliable indicator of
market values and conditions and is highly regarded by industry/market agents should be
provided. Such documentation may take on various forms, including carefully
documented interviews with principal market trading agents, pricing experts, marketing
agents, etc. Appropriate consideration also should be given to the commercial
acceptability, public availability, and timeliness of the price series that is used to
calculate the cash flows of the swap.
150
SEF should either calculate its own reference price using suitable and well-established
acceptable methods or carefully select a reliable third-party index.
Proposed Rule 820 would implement Core Principle 3. Although, like § 37.300,
proposed Rule 820 repeats the statutory text of the Core Principle, the Commission preliminarily
believes that it is not necessary or appropriate to harmonize with the CFTC guidance referenced
in § 37.301, as this guidance was developed for products other than SBS.
The Commission seeks comment on the following:
121. Do you agree with how the Commission is proposing to implement Core Principle
3? Why or why not? If not, what other rules would you suggest?
D. Rule 821—Core Principle 4—Monitoring of trading and trade processing
Core Principle 4158 requires an SBSEF to establish and enforce rules or terms and
conditions defining or specifications detailing: (1) trading procedures to be used in entering and
executing orders traded on or through the facilities of the SBSEF; and (2) procedures for trade
processing of SBS on or through the facilities of the SBSEF. Core Principle 4 also requires an
SBSEF to monitor trading in SBS to prevent manipulation, price distortion, and disruptions of
the delivery or cash settlement process through surveillance, compliance, and disciplinary
practices and procedures, including methods for conducting real-time monitoring of trading and
comprehensive and accurate trade reconstructions. CEA Core Principle 4 for SEFs159 is
substantively identical.
The CFTC implemented Core Principle 4 in Subpart E of Part 37. § 37.401 of Subpart E

158 Section 3D(d)(4) of the SEA, 15 U.S.C. 78c-4(d)(4).
159 Section 5h(f)(4) of the CEA, 7 U.S.C. 7b-3(f)(4).
151
provides that a SEF must collect and evaluate data on its market participants’ market activity;
demonstrate an effective program for conducting real-time monitoring to detect and resolve
abnormalities; demonstrate the ability to comprehensively and accurately reconstruct daily
trading; and demonstrate that it has access to sufficient information to assess whether trading in
the swaps on its market, in the index or instruments used as a reference price, or other underlying
instruments is being used to affect prices on its market. § 37.402 and § 37.403 impose additional
requirements for physical-delivery swaps and cash-settled swaps, respectively. § 37.404(a)
requires a SEF to demonstrate that it has access to sufficient information to assess whether
trading in swaps listed on its market, in the index or instrument used as a reference price, or in
the underlying commodity for its listed swaps is being used to affect prices on its market.
§ 37.404(b) requires a SEF to have rules that require its market participants to keep records of
their trading, including records of their activity in the index or instrument used as a reference
price, the underlying commodity, and related derivatives markets, and make such records
available, upon request, to the SEF or, if applicable, to its regulatory service provider, and the
CFTC. § 37.405 requires a SEF to establish and maintain risk control mechanisms to prevent
and reduce the potential risk of market disruptions, including, but not limited to, market
restrictions that pause or halt trading under market conditions prescribed by the SEF. § 37.406
requires a SEF to have the ability to reconstruct all trading on its facility, and requires that all
audit-trail data and reconstructions shall be made available to the CFTC in a form, manner, and
time that is acceptable to the CFTC. § 37.407 requires a SEF to comply with Subpart E of Part
37 through a dedicated regulatory department or by contracting with a regulatory services
provider. § 37.408 provides that SEFs may refer to the guidance in Appendix B to Part 37 to
152
demonstrate compliance with Subpart E of Part 37.160
Proposed Rule 821 would implement Core Principle 4 and is closely modelled on the
rules in Subpart E of Part 37. The Commission preliminarily believes that the CFTC has
implemented Core Principle 4 for SEFs in an appropriate way, and that closely harmonizing with
the CFTC rule would yield comparable regulatory benefits while imposing only marginal
additional costs. The Commission does not observe any differences between the swap and SBS
markets sufficient to warrant a different approach to how a SEF/SBSEF should monitor trading
and trade processing.
As noted above, the Commission preliminarily believes, in attempting to harmonize with
the CFTC’s regulatory regime for SEFs, that it would be preferable to adapt the CFTC’s
guidance and acceptable practices from Appendix B to Part 37 into formal rules, where
appropriate. Although the Commission considered proposing a stand-alone rule that adapts the
guidance pertaining to Core Principle 4, the Commission is proposing instead to weave
concepts—and, in some cases, specific language—from the guidance together with the CFTC’s
original rule text, as the guidance itself follows the structure of the rule. The Commission
illustrates its approach in the following proposed rules, where the analogous CFTC rule language
is in plain text and language adapted from the guidance is italicized:
• Proposed Rule 821(b)(3): An SBSEF shall: “Demonstrate an effective program for
conducting real-time monitoring of trading for the purpose of detecting and resolving
abnormalities. A security-based swap execution facility shall employ automated
 160 The guidance pertaining to Core Principle 4 has subsections entitled “general
requirements,” “physical-delivery swaps,” “cash-settled swaps,” “ability to obtain
information,” and “risk controls for trading.”
153
alerts to detect abnormal price movements and unusual trading volumes in real time
and instances or threats of manipulation, price distortion, and disruptions on at least
a T+1 basis. The T+1 detection and analysis should incorporate any additional data
that becomes available on a T+1 basis, including the trade reconstruction data.”
• Proposed Rule 821(d)(2): “For cash-settled security-based swaps listed on the
security-based swap execution facility where the reference price is formulated and
computed by the security-based swap execution facility, the security-based swap
execution facility shall demonstrate that it monitors the continued appropriateness of
its methodology for deriving that price and shall promptly amend any methodologies
that result, or are likely to result, in manipulation, price distortions, or market
disruptions, or impose new methodologies to resolve the threat of disruptions or
distortions.”
• Proposed Rule 821(d)(3): “For cash-settled security-based swaps listed on the
security-based swap execution facility where the reference price relies on a thirdparty index or instrument, including an index or instrument traded on another venue,
the security-based swap execution facility shall demonstrate that it monitors for
pricing abnormalities in the index or instrument used to calculate the reference price
and shall conduct due diligence to ensure that the reference price is not susceptible to
manipulation.”
• Proposed Rule 821(e)(1): “A security-based swap execution facility shall
demonstrate that it has access to sufficient information to assess whether trading in
security-based swaps listed on its market, in the index or instrument used as a
reference price, or in the underlying asset for its listed security-based swaps is being
154
used to affect prices on its market. The security-based swap execution facility shall
demonstrate that it can obtain position and trading information directly from
members that conduct substantial trading on its facility or through an informationsharing agreement with other venues or a third-party regulatory service provider. If
the position and trading information is not available directly from its members but is
available through information-sharing agreements with other trading venues or a
third-party regulatory service provider, the security-based swap execution facility
should cooperate in such information-sharing agreements.”
• Proposed Rule 821(e)(2): “A security-based swap execution facility shall have rules
that require its members to keep records of their trading, including records of their
activity in the underlying asset, and related derivatives markets, and make such
records available, upon request, to the security-based swap execution facility or, if
applicable, to its regulatory service provider and the Commission. The security-based
swap execution facility may limit the application of this requirement to only those
members that conduct substantial trading on its facility.”
• Proposed Rule 821(f): “A security-based swap execution facility shall establish and
maintain risk control mechanisms to prevent and reduce the potential risk of market
disruptions, including, but not limited to, market restrictions that pause or halt trading
under market conditions prescribed by the security-based swap execution facility.
Such risk control mechanisms shall be designed to avoid market disruptions without
unduly interfering with that market’s price discovery function. The security-based
swap execution facility may choose from among controls that include: pre-trade
limits on order size, price collars or bands around the current price, message
155
throttles, daily price limits, and intraday position limits related to financial risk to the
clearing member, or design other types of controls, as well as clear error-trade and
order-cancellation policies. Within the specific array of controls that are selected,
the security-based swap execution facility shall set the parameters for those controls,
so that the specific parameters are reasonably likely to serve the purpose of
preventing market disruptions and price distortions.”
The Commission also is proposing a stand-alone provision derived from the Appendix B
guidance as Rule 821(b)(5), which would provide than an SBSEF must have rules in place that
allow it to intervene to prevent or reduce market disruptions. Once a threatened or actual
disruption is detected, the security-based swap execution facility shall take steps to prevent the
market disruption or reduce its severity.
Finally, in several instances in Subpart E of Part 37, the CFTC uses the term
“commodity” with respect to the swap underlier. In proposed Rule 821, the Commission is
proposing instead to use the more generic term “asset” to refer to the underlier.
The Commission seeks comment on the following:
122. Do you agree in general with the Commission’s approach to implementing Core
Principle 4? Why or why not? In particular, do agree with how the Commission is
proposing to adapt the CFTC guidance on Core Principle 4 by converting appropriate
parts of it into a formal rule? Why or why not?
123. In particular, is there any language that the Commission is proposing to adapt
from Subpart E of Part 37 into proposed Rule 821 that you believe is not appropriate?
If so, how would you revise it?
124. Are there any aspects of proposed Rule 821 that derive from the guidance that you
156
believe are inappropriate for the Commission to incorporate into its own rules, or that
you believe the Commission is proposing to incorporate inappropriately? If so,
please discuss.
125. Are there any aspects of the CFTC’s guidance that you believe should also be
incorporated into the SEC rule but are not present in proposed Rule 821? If so, please
describe.
E. Rule 822—Core Principle 5—Ability to obtain information
Core Principle 5161 requires an SBSEF to establish and enforce rules that will allow the
SBSEF to obtain any necessary information to perform any of the functions described in the
Core Principles, provide the information to the Commission on request, and have the capacity to
carry out such international information-sharing agreements as the Commission may require.
CEA Core Principle 5 for SEFs162 is substantively identical.
The CFTC implemented Core Principle 5 in Subpart F of Part 37. § 37.500 of Subpart F
repeats the statutory text of Core Principle 5. § 37.501 requires a SEF to establish and enforce
rules that will allow the SEF to have the ability and authority to obtain sufficient information to
allow it to fully perform its operational, risk management, governance, and regulatory functions
and any requirements under the rule, including the capacity to carry out international
information-sharing agreements as the Commission may require. § 37.502 requires a SEF to
have rules that allow it to collect information on a routine basis, allow for the collection of nonroutine data from its market participants, and allow for its examination of books and records kept

161 Section 3D(d)(5) of the SEA, 15 U.S.C. 78c-4(d)(5).
162 Section 5h(f)(5) of the CEA, 7 U.S.C. 7b-3(f)(5).
157
by the market participants on its facility. § 37.503 requires a SEF to provide information in its
possession to the CFTC upon request, in a form and manner that the CFTC approves. § 37.504
requires a SEF to share information with other regulatory organizations, data repositories, and
third-party data reporting services as required by the CFTC or as otherwise necessary and
appropriate to fulfill its self-regulatory and reporting responsibilities. § 37.504 further provides
that appropriate information-sharing agreements can be established with such entities or the
CFTC can act in conjunction with the SEF to carry out such information sharing.
Proposed Rule 822 would implement Core Principle 5 and is substantively identical to
Subpart F of Part 37. Paragraph (a) of proposed Rule 822 repeats the statutory text of Core
Principle 5. Paragraph (b), modelled on § 37.501, would require that an SBSEF establish and
enforce rules that will allow the SBSEF to have the ability and authority to obtain sufficient
information to allow it to fully perform its operational, risk management, governance, and
regulatory functions and any requirements under Regulation SE. Paragraph (c), like § 37.502,
would require an SBSEF to have rules that allow it to collect information on a routine basis,
allow for the collection of non-routine data from its members, and allow for its examination of
books and records kept by members on its facility.
163 Paragraph (d), like § 37.503, would require
that an SBSEF provide information in its possession to the Commission upon request, in a form
and manner specified by the Commission. Finally, paragraph (e), like § 37.504, would require
an SBSEF to share information with other regulatory organizations, data repositories, and thirdparty data reporting services as required by the Commission or as otherwise necessary and

163 While § 37.502 of Subpart F uses the term “market participant,” proposed Rule 822
substitutes the term “member” in these places, since the rule pertains to market
participants who are acting as members of the SEF/SBSEF. See supra note 53.
158
appropriate to fulfill its regulatory and reporting responsibilities, and that appropriate
information-sharing agreements can be established with such entities, or the Commission can act
in conjunction with the SBSEF to carry out such information sharing.
The Commission preliminarily believes that closely harmonizing with the CFTC’s rules
associated with CEA Core Principle 5 would appropriately implement SEA Core Principle 5. By
harmonizing with the CFTC’s approach, a SEF/SBSEF could have the same informationcollection rules and information-sharing agreements. The Commission could thus obtain
comparable regulatory benefits while imposing few if any additional costs on SEF/SBSEFs.
The Commission seeks comment on the following:
126. Do you agree generally with how the Commission is proposing to implement
Core Principle 5? Why or why not?
127. In particular, do you believe that closely harmonizing with Subpart F of the
CFTC’s rules is appropriate? Why or why not? If not, please identify any
provision(s) in the CFTC rules that you believe should not be adapted for SBSEFs
and explain your reasoning.
F. Rule 823—Core Principle 6—Financial integrity of transactions
SEA Core Principle 6164 requires an SBSEF to establish and enforce rules and procedures
for ensuring the financial integrity of SBS entered on or through the facilities of the SBSEF,
including the clearance and settlement of SBS pursuant to Section 3C(a)(1) of the SEA.
165 CEA
 164 Section 3D(d)(6) of the SEA, 15 U.S.C. 78c-4(d)(6).
165 15 U.S.C. 78c-3(a)(1). See supra note 94 and accompanying text (discussing mandatory
clearing provisions).
159
Core Principle 7 for SEFs166 is substantively identical to SEA Core Principle 6.
The CFTC implemented CEA Core Principle 7 in Subpart H of Part 37. § 37.700 of
Subpart H repeats the statutory text of Core Principle 7. § 37.701 provides that transactions
executed on or through the SEF that are required to be cleared or are voluntarily cleared by the
counterparties shall be cleared through a registered or exempt DCO. § 37.702 requires a SEF to
provide for the financial integrity of its transactions by establishing minimum financial standards
for its members, which shall at a minimum require members to be ECPs. § 37.702 further
requires a SEF to provide for the financial integrity of its transactions by ensuring that the SEF,
for transactions cleared by a DCO, has the capacity to route transactions to the DCO in a manner
acceptable to the DCO; and by coordinating with each DCO to which it submits transactions for
clearing in the development of rules and procedures to facilitate prompt and efficient transaction
processing. § 37.703 requires a SEF to monitor its members to ensure that they continue to
qualify as ECPs.
Proposed Rule 823 would implement SEA Core Principle 6 and is substantively identical
to Subpart H of Part 37. Paragraph (a) of proposed Rule 823 repeats the statutory text of the
Core Principle. Paragraph (b), like § 37.701, would require that transactions executed on or
through the SBSEF that are required to be cleared under Section 3C(a)(1) of the SEA or are
voluntarily cleared by the counterparties shall be cleared through a registered clearing agency167
or a clearing agency that has obtained an exemption from clearing agency registration to provide

166 Section 5h(f)(7) of the CEA, 7 U.S.C. 7b-3(f)(7).
167 While Subpart H of Part 37 uses the term “derivatives clearing organization,” proposed
Rule 823 substitutes the term “registered clearing agency” in these places, the analogous
term under the SEA.
160
central counterparty services for SBS. Paragraph (c), like § 37.702, would require an SBSEF to
provide for the financial integrity of its transactions by establishing minimum financial standards
for its members, which shall, at a minimum, require that each member qualify as an ECP. In
addition, for transactions cleared by a registered clearing agency, an SBSEF must provide for the
financial integrity of its transactions by ensuring that it has the capacity to route transactions to
the registered clearing agency in a manner acceptable to the clearing agency for purposes of
clearing, and by coordinating with each registered clearing agency to which it submits
transactions for clearing, in the development of rules and procedures to facilitate prompt and
efficient transaction processing. Finally, paragraph (d), like § 37.703, would require that an
SBSEF monitor its members to ensure that they continue to qualify as ECPs.
The Commission preliminarily believes that closely harmonizing with the CFTC’s rules
associated with CEA Core Principle 7 would appropriately implement SEA Core Principle 6. By
harmonizing with the CFTC’s approach, a SEF/SBSEF could have the same financial standards
and requirements for its members, and develop the same processes for submitting swaps and
SBS for clearing, thus promoting efficiency among its respective SEF and SBSEF operations.
The Commission could thus obtain comparable regulatory benefits while imposing few if any
additional costs on SEF/SBSEFs.
The Commission seeks comment on the following:
128. Do you agree generally with how the Commission is proposing to implement
Core Principle 6? Why or why not?
129. In particular, do you believe that closely harmonizing with Subpart H of the
CFTC’s rules is appropriate? Why or why not? If not, please identify any
provision(s) in the CFTC rules that you believe should not be adapted for SBSEFs
161
and explain your reasoning.
130. Are there any differences in the SBS market relative to the swap market that
warrant imposing different or additive requirements with respect to the rules for
implementing SEA Core Principle 6? If so, please explain.
G. Rule 824—Core Principle 7—Emergency authority
SEA Core Principle 7168 requires an SBSEF to adopt rules to provide for the exercise of
emergency authority, in consultation or cooperation with the Commission, as is necessary and
appropriate, including the authority to liquidate or transfer open positions in any SBS or to
suspend or curtail trading in an SBS. CEA Core Principle 8 for SEFs169 is substantively
identical.
The CFTC implemented Core Principle 8 for SEFs in Subpart I of Part 37. § 37.800 of
Subpart I repeats the statutory text of the Core Principle. § 37.801 provides that a SEF “may
refer” to the guidance in Appendix B to Part 37 “to demonstrate to the Commission compliance
with [Core Principle 8].” Paragraph (a)(1) of that guidance states that a SEF should have rules
that authorize it to take certain actions in the event of an emergency. Furthermore, a SEF should
have the authority to intervene as necessary to maintain markets with fair and orderly trading and
to prevent or address manipulation or disruptive trading practices, whether the need for
intervention arises exclusively from the SEF’s market or as part of a coordinated, cross-market
intervention. A SEF should have the flexibility and independence to address market emergencies
in an effective and timely manner consistent with the nature of the emergency, as long as all such

168 Section 3D(d)(7) of the SEA, 15 U.S.C. 78c-4(d)(7).
169 Section 5h(f)(8) of the CEA, 7 U.S.C. 7b-3(f)(8).
162
actions taken by the SEF are made in good faith to protect the integrity of the markets. However,
the SEF should also have rules that allow it to take market actions as may be directed by the
CFTC. Additionally, in situations where a swap is traded on more than one platform, emergency
action to liquidate or transfer open interest shall be as directed, or agreed to, by the CFTC or its
staff. The SEF’s rules should include procedures and guidelines for decision-making and
implementation of emergency intervention that avoid conflicts of interest, and include alternate
lines of communication and approval procedures to address emergencies associated with real
time events. To address perceived market threats, the SEF should have rules that allow it to take
emergency actions, including imposing or modifying position limits, imposing or modifying
price limits, imposing or modifying intraday market restrictions, imposing special margin
requirements, ordering the liquidation or transfer of open positions in any contract, ordering the
fixing of a settlement price, extending or shortening the expiration date or the trading hours,
suspending or curtailing trading in any contract, transferring customer contracts and the margin,
or altering any contract's settlement terms or conditions, or, if applicable, providing for the
carrying out of such actions through its agreements with its third-party provider of clearing or
regulatory services.
Paragraph (a)(2) of the guidance provides that a SEF should promptly notify the CFTC of
its exercise of emergency action, explaining its decision-making process, the reasons for using its
emergency authority, and how conflicts of interest were minimized, including the extent to
which the SEF considered the effect of its emergency action on the underlying markets and on
markets that are linked or referenced to the contracts traded on its facility, including similar
markets on other trading venues. Furthermore, information on all regulatory actions carried out
pursuant to a SEF’s emergency authority should be included in a timely submission of a certified
163
rule pursuant to Part 40.
Proposed Rule 824 would implement SEA Core Principle 7 and is closely modelled on
Subpart I of Part 37 and the guidance for CEA Core Principle 8 in Appendix B to Part 37.
Paragraph (a) of proposed Rule 824 would repeat the statutory text of the Core Principle.
Paragraph (b) of proposed Rule 824 would incorporate much of the language in paragraph (a)(1)
of the CFTC’s guidance on CEA Core Principle 8. Under paragraph (b), an SBSEF would be
required to adopt rules that are reasonably designed to:
(1) Allow the SBSEF to intervene as necessary to maintain markets with fair and orderly
trading and to prevent or address manipulation or disruptive trading practices, whether the need
for intervention arises exclusively from the SBSEF’s market or as part of a coordinated, crossmarket intervention;
(2) Have the flexibility and independence to address market emergencies in an effective
and timely manner consistent with the nature of the emergency, as long as all such actions taken
by the SBSEF are made in good faith to protect the integrity of the markets;
(3) Take market actions as may be directed by the Commission, including, in situations
where an SBS is traded on more than one platform, emergency action to liquidate or transfer
open interest as directed, or agreed to, by the Commission or the Commission’s staff;
(4) Include procedures and guidelines for decision-making and implementation of
emergency intervention that avoid conflicts of interest;
(5) Include alternate lines of communication and approval procedures to address
emergencies associated with real-time events;
(6) Allow the SBSEF, to address perceived market threats, to impose or modify position
limits, impose or modify price limits, impose or modify intraday market restrictions, impose
164
special margin requirements, order the liquidation or transfer of open positions in any contract,
order the fixing of a settlement price, extend or shorten the expiration date or the trading hours,
suspend or curtail trading in any contract, transfer customer contracts and the margin, or alter
any contract’s settlement terms or conditions, or, if applicable, provide for the carrying out of
such actions through its agreements with its third-party provider of clearing or regulatory
services.
Paragraph (c) of proposed Rule 824 is based on paragraph (a)(2) of the CFTC’s guidance
on CEA Core Principle 8 and would require an SBSEF to promptly notify the Commission of its
exercise of emergency action, explaining its decision-making process, the reasons for using its
emergency authority, and how conflicts of interest were minimized, including the extent to
which the SBSEF considered the effect of its emergency action on the underlying markets and on
markets that are linked or referenced to the contracts traded on its facility, including similar
markets on other trading venues. In addition, proposed Rule 824(c) would require information
on all regulatory actions carried out pursuant to an SBSEF’s emergency authority to be included
in a timely submission of a certified rule pursuant to Rule 807.
The Commission preliminarily believes that adapting the CFTC’s guidance associated
with CEA Core Principle 8 into proposed Rule 824 would appropriately implement SEA Core
Principle 7. In particular, the Commission preliminarily agrees with the CFTC’s principlesbased approach to emergency situations, requiring SEF/SBSEFs to establish rules ex ante that
generally would facilitate emergency actions but providing flexibility and independence with
regard to specific actions that might be necessary. The Commission also preliminarily believes,
as reflected in proposed Rule 824(c), that an SBSEF that exercises its emergency authority
should be required to promptly notify the Commission of such exercise and to explain the basis
165
for its actions. By harmonizing with the CFTC’s approach, the Commission’s intent is that, in
many or even all instances, the SEF/SBSEF could file the same information regarding the
situation to both agencies, rather than having to prepare one submission for the SEC and a
different submission for the CFTC.
The Commission seeks comment on the following:
131. Do you agree generally with the Commission’s approach to implementing SEA
Core Principle 7? Why or why not?
132. In particular, do you agree with how the Commission is proposing to adapt the
guidance from Appendix B to Part 37 regarding CEA Core Principle 8? Is there
language adapted from the guidance into proposed Rule 824 that you believe should
be omitted or revised? If so, please describe.
H. Rule 825—Core Principle 8—Timely publication of trading information
SEA Core Principle 8170 requires an SBSEF to make public timely information on price,
trading volume, and other trading data on SBS to the extent prescribed by the Commission, and
to have the capacity to electronically capture and transmit and disseminate trade information
with respect to transactions executed on or through the facility. CEA Core Principle 9171 is
substantively identical to SEA Core Principle 8.
The CFTC implemented CEA Core Principle 9 in Subpart J of Part 37. § 37.900 of
Subpart J repeats the statutory language of the Core Principle. § 37.901 provides that, with
respect to swaps traded on or through a SEF, the SEF shall report specified swap data as
 170 Section 3D(d)(8) of the SEA, 15 U.S.C. 78c-4(d)(8).
171 Section 5h(f)(9) of the CEA, 7 U.S.C. 7b-3(f)(9).
166
provided in Parts 43 and 45 of the CFTC’s rules. § 37.901 also requires the SEF to comply with
Part 16 of the CFTC’s rules, which requires a “reporting market” (which term includes a SEF) to
provide certain reports to the CFTC regarding trading activity on the SEF and to make certain of
that information publicly available without charge.
Proposed Rule 825 would implement SEA Core Principle 8 and is closely modelled on
Subpart J of Part 37. Paragraph (a) of proposed Rule 825, like § 37.900, repeats the statutory
language of the Core Principle. While § 37.901 provides that a SEF shall report swap transaction
data pursuant to Parts 43 and 45 of the CFTC’s rules, paragraph (b) of proposed Rule 825 would
direct SBSEFs to report SBS transaction data in a manner specified in the SEC’s Regulation
SBSR.172
In addition, the Commission preliminarily believes that it would be appropriate to
incorporate requirements for SBSEFs that are modelled on the requirements for SEFs in the
CFTC’s Part 16. Unlike Part 16, however, the Commission is not proposing to require SBSEFs
to submit any information directly to the Commission.173 Rather, the Commission is proposing
in paragraph (c) of Rule 825 to require only the publication, on an SBSEF’s website, of a “Daily
Market Data Report.” The data fields that the Commission is proposing to require for the Daily
Market Data Report approximate, although they are not the same as, those required by Part 16.
 172 Section 13(m)(1) of the SEA, 15 U.S.C. 78m(m)(1), authorizes the Commission to make
SBS transaction, volume, and pricing data available to the public in such form and at
such times as the Commission determines appropriate to enhance price discovery. The
Commission has adopted rules relating to the reporting and public dissemination of SBS
transaction and pricing data as Regulation SBSR. Rule 901(a)(1) of Regulation SBSR,
17 CFR 242.901(a)(1), imposes certain reporting duties on SBSEFs.
173 Contra § 16.00(a) (requiring a reporting market to submit clearing member reports to the
CFTC for each business day).
167
The Commission preliminarily believes that the differences in the product markets (i.e., SBS vs.
swaps and futures products) necessitate certain adaptations in the data fields so as to render the
reports published by SBSEFs meaningful to SBS market participants and market observers.
Under proposed Rule 825(c)(1), the Daily Market Data Report for a business day would
be required to contain the following information for each tenor of each SBS traded on that
SBSEF during that business day:
(i) The trade count (including block trades but excluding error trades, correcting trades,
and offsetting trades);
(ii) The total notional amount traded (including block trades but excluding error trades,
correcting trades, and offsetting trades174);
(iii) The number of block trades;
(iv) The total notional amount of block trades;
(v) The opening and closing price;
(vi) The price that is used for settlement purposes, if different from the closing price; and
(vii) The lowest price of a sale or offer, whichever is lower, and the highest price of a sale
or bid, whichever is higher, that the SBSEF reasonably determines accurately reflects market
conditions. Bids and offers vacated or withdrawn shall not be used in making this determination.
A bid is vacated if followed by a higher bid or price and an offer is vacated if followed by a
lower offer or price.
Paragraph (c)(2) of proposed Rule 825 would require an SBSEF to provide certain
explanatory information regarding data presented on the Daily Market Data Report:

174 Each of these terms is defined in proposed Rule 802 and also used in proposed Rule 815.
168
(i) The method used by the SBSEF in determining nominal prices and settlement prices;
and
(ii) If discretion is used by the SBSEF in determining the opening and/or closing ranges
or the settlement prices, an explanation that certain discretion may be employed by the SBSEF
and a description of the manner in which that discretion may be employed. Discretionary
authority would have to be noted explicitly in each case in which it is applied (for example, by
use of an asterisk or footnote).
Paragraph (c)(3) of proposed Rule 825 would set out various requirements regarding the
form and manner by which an SBSEF makes available its Daily Market Data Report. Paragraph
(c)(3)(i) would require the SBSEF to post on its website its Daily Market Data Report in a
downloadable and machine-readable format using the most recent versions of the associated
XML schema and PDF renderer as published on the Commission’s website. This proposed
requirement is similar to existing Commission requirements for broker-dealer reports on order
routing and execution175 and is designed to allow the Daily Market Data Report to be
automatically recognized and processed by a variety of software applications, thus making it
immediately available for users to search, aggregate, compare, and analyze.176 This should
enable SBS market participants and other market observers to obtain timely and consistent
information on price, trading volume, and other SBSEF trading data in a manner that would
facilitate search capabilities, and statistical and comparative analyses across SBSEFs and date

175 See 17 CFR 242.606.
176 XML (eXtensible Markup Language) is an open standard that defines, or “tags,” data
using standard definitions. The tags establish a consistent structure of identity and
context, which allows for automatic recognition and processing by software applications.
169
ranges. In addition, requiring SBSEFs to use a PDF renderer as specified by the Commission
would provide a corresponding human-readable version of the machine-readable data, allowing
end users without access to analytical software to read the disclosed information.
Paragraph (c)(3)(ii) of proposed Rule 825 would require the SBSEF to make available its
Daily Market Data Report without fees or other charges. Paragraph (c)(3)(iii) would prohibit the
SBSEF from imposing any encumbrances on access or usage restrictions with respect to the
Daily Market Data Report. Paragraph (c)(3)(iv) would prohibit the SBSEF from requiring a user
to agree to any terms before being allowed to view or download the Daily Market Data Report,
such as by waiving any requirements of proposed Rule 825(c)(3). Paragraph (c)(3)(iv) would
further provide that any such waiver agreed to by a user would be null and void.177 The
Commission preliminarily believes that proposed Rule 825(c)(3) could be subverted if an SBSEF
could, for example, require that users—as a condition to viewing or downloading the Daily
Market Data Report—waive any of the protections afforded under proposed Rule 825(c)(3).
Proposed Rule 825(c)(3) is designed to promote wide use of the SBS trading information
contained in the Daily Market Data Report by prohibiting an SBSEF from imposing any
financial, legal, or operational burdens on that use. The approach taken in proposed Rule
825(c)(3) is similar to the approach taken by the Commission in Regulation SBSR, which uses

177 The presence of any such waiver requirements on a click-through screen could chill use
of the Daily Market Data Report, because the user would be compelled to agree to the
waiver even to view the report. The Commission recognizes that individual users may
not have the time or the incentive to contest the appropriateness of any such waiver
provisions in order to secure access. Proposed Rule 825(c)(3)(iv) is designed to assure
such users that, even if an SBSEF were to insist on the waiver click-through as a
condition of access, users would not in fact be sacrificing their ability to use the data free
of charges and usage restrictions because the waiver would be null and void.
170
the term “widely accessible”178 to prohibit registered SDRs from charging fees for or imposing
usage restrictions on the SBS transaction data that they are required to publicly disseminate
under Regulation SBSR.179 When adopting the definition of “widely accessible,” the
Commission noted that a registered SDR has a monopoly position over the SBS transaction
information that it publicly disseminates and stated that “there would be no other source from
which the user could freely obtain this transaction information.”180 The Commission
preliminarily believes that a registered SBSEF is similarly situated, because it is the sole source
of information about SBS trading activity on its market. The Commission also stated that the
prohibition on usage restrictions encompasses an SDR-imposed restriction on bulk redistribution
by third parties of the regulatorily mandated transaction data that the registered SDR publicly
disseminates.181 For the same reasons, the proposed prohibition against an SBSEF imposing any
usage restrictions on its Daily Market Data Report necessarily would encompass a prohibition on
bulk redistribution of the Daily Market Data Report or any information contained therein. The
Commission seeks to encourage market observers to access the Daily Market Data Report and
scrub, reconfigure, aggregate, analyze, repurpose, or otherwise add value to the information

178 See Rule 900(tt) of Regulation SBSR, 17 CFR 242.900(tt) (defining “widely accessible”).
179 See Regulation SBSR—Reporting and Dissemination of Security-Based Swap
Information, SEA Release No. 78321 (July 14, 2016), 81 FR 53546, 53586-89 (August
12, 2016) (“Regulation SBSR Adopting Release II”).
180 Id. at 53587.
181 Id. (stating that: “The Commission continues to believe that allowing unencumbered
redistribution best serves the policy goals of wide availability of the data and
minimization of information asymmetries in the [SBS] market. Because the Commission
is prohibiting registered SDRs from imposing a restriction on bulk redistribution, third
parties . . . will be able to take in the full data set and scrub, reconfigure, aggregate,
analyze, repurpose, or otherwise add value to those data, and potentially sell that valueadded product to others”).
171
contained in the report as they see fit.
Paragraph (c)(4) of proposed Rule 825 would require the SBSEF to publish the Daily
Market Data Report on its website no later than the SBSEF’s commencement of trading on the
next business day after the day to which the information pertains. Proposed Rule 825(c)(4) is
designed to require an SBSEF to provide its market data in a timely fashion so that it can be
assessed and utilized by the next business day. Finally, paragraph (c)(5) would require the
SBSEF to keep each Daily Market Data Report available on its website in the same location as
all other Daily Market Data Reports for no less than one year after the date of first publication.
Proposed Rule 825(c)(5) is designed to allow market observers to consult a reasonable number of
previous reports on the SBSEF’s website; the reports would be of less utility if an SBSEF could
take down reports shortly after they are posted.
The Commission seeks comment on the following:
133. Do you agree in general with the Commission’s approach for implementing SEA
Core Principle 8? Why or why not?
134. Do you agree with the adaptions that the Commission is proposing to the CFTC’s
Part 16 for inclusion in proposed Rule 825(c)? In particular, do you concur with the
Commission’s proposal to require only the Daily Market Data Report (to be published
on the SBSEF’s website) and not to require any daily reports to the Commission?
Why or why not? If not, what market data do you believe should be reported directly
to the Commission, and why?
135. Do you agree with the fields proposed by the Commission for the Daily Market
Data Report in paragraphs (c)(1) and (c)(2) of proposed Rule 825? If not, which
fields do you believe are not appropriate, and why?
172
136. Do you believe that any of the fields should be defined differently or more
precisely? If so, please explain.
137. Do you believe that the Commission should require additional fields? If so, what
fields and why?
138. Do you agree with the proposed requirement in Rule 825(c)(3) that the Daily
Market Data Report should be available free of charge and without usage restrictions
or encumbrances? Why or why not? Are there any clarifications that you would
recommend to help promote free and unencumbered access to and use of the Daily
Market Data Report and any information contained therein? If so, please discuss.
139. Do you agree with the proposed requirement that the Daily Market Data Report
should be made available in a downloadable and machine-readable format using the
most recent version of the associated XML schema and PDF renderer as published on
the Commission’s website? Why or why not? Is there some other format that the
Commission should require? If so, what format and why?
140. Do you agree with the proposed requirement in Rule 825(c)(4) that an SBSEF
must publish the Daily Market Data Report on its website no later than the SBSEF’s
commencement of trading on the next business day after the day to which the
information pertains? Why or why not? What is the current practice for the
approximate time of day at which CFTC reporting markets make available their daily
market data?
141. Do you agree with the proposed requirement in Rule 825(c)(5) that an SBSEF
keep each Daily Market Data Report available on its website in the same location as
all other Daily Market Data Reports for no less than one year after the date of first
173
publication? Why or why not? Do you believe that a longer or shorter period would
be appropriate? If so, please explain.
I. Rule 826—Core Principle 9 – Recordkeeping and reporting
SEA Core Principle 9182 sets forth recordkeeping and reporting obligations for SBSEFs.
Core Principle 9 requires an SBSEF to maintain records of all activities relating to the business
of the facility, including a complete audit trail, in a form and manner acceptable to the
Commission for a period of five years. The Core Principle further requires an SBSEF to report
to the Commission, in a form and manner acceptable to the Commission, such information as the
Commission determines to be necessary or appropriate for the Commission to perform its duties.
Finally, under Core Principle 9, the Commission must adopt data collection and reporting
requirements for SBSEFs that are comparable to requirements for clearing agencies and SBS
data repositories.183 CEA Core Principle 10 for SEFs, although it includes an additional clause
not present in the equivalent SEA Core Principle 9,184 is substantively identical.
The CFTC implemented Core Principle 10 for SEFs in Subpart K of Part 37. § 37.1000
of Subpart K repeats the statutory language of the Core Principle. § 37.1001 requires a SEF to

182 Section 3D(d)(9) of the SEA, 15 U.S.C. 78c-4(d)(9).
183 As discussed below in this section, the Commission is proposing Rule 826 to require an
SBSEF to maintain records of all activities relating to the business of the SBSEF for a
period of not less than five years. Similarly, Rule 17a-1 under the SEA, 17 CFR
240.17a-1, requires a clearing agency to keep and preserve one copy of all documents
made or received in the course of its business and conduct of its self-regulatory activities
for a period of not less than five years. In addition, Rule 13n-7(b) under the SEA, 17
CFT 240.13n-7(b), requires an SBS data repository to keep and preserve a copy of all
documents made or received by it in the course of its business for at least five years.
184 CEA Core Principle 10 includes a clause stating that a SEF shall keep any records
relating to certain swaps open to inspection and examination by the SEC. See 7 U.S.C.
7b-3(f)(10)(A)(iii).
174
maintain records of all activities relating to the business of the facility, in a form and manner
acceptable to the CFTC, for a period of at least five years, and that a SEF shall maintain such
records, including a complete audit trail for all swaps executed on or subject to the rules of the
SEF, investigatory files, and disciplinary files. § 37.1001 does not itself set forth detailed record
retention requirements. Instead, § 37.1001 directs SEFs to maintain the required records in
accordance with § 1.31 and Part 45 of the CFTC’s rules.
§ 1.31 imposes on “records entities” (which term includes SEFs) various requirements
relating to record retention and production. § 1.31(a) sets out definitions of terms used
throughout § 1.31. § 1.31(b) sets out the duration of retention for different types of records. In
particular, a records entity must keep regulatory records of any swap from the date that the
regulatory record was created until at least five years after the termination, maturity, expiration,
transfer, assignment, or novation of such swap. § 1.31(c) sets out the required form and manner
of retention. § 1.31(d) provides that a records entity must, at its own expense, produce or make
regulatory records accessible for inspection to CFTC staff or to the U.S. Department of Justice,
and includes other details regarding production requests.
§ 45.2 imposes various recordkeeping, retention, and retrieval requirements applicable to
SEFs (among others) to support trade reporting. § 45.2(a), among other things, requires a SEF to
keep all records required by Part 37. § 45.2(c) sets out a record retention requirement.185

185 See 7 CFR 45.2(c) (“All records required to be kept pursuant to this section shall be
retained with respect to each swap throughout the life of the swap and for a period of at
least five years following the final termination of the swap”). § 45.2(b) imposes duties
on certain swap counterparties and is not germane to SEFs; therefore, the Commission is
not considering adapting it into proposed Rule 826.
175
§ 45.2(d) imposes requirements on the form of retention. § 45.2(e) imposes requirements on
record retrievability. § 45.2(h)186 imposes requirements for record inspection; in particular, all
records required to be kept by § 45.2 shall be open to inspection upon request by any
representative of the CFTC, the U.S. Department of Justice, the SEC, or by any representative of
a prudential regulatory as authorized by the CFTC.
To implement SEA Core Principle 9, the Commission is proposing Rule 826, which
would roughly approximate §§ 1.31 and 45.2 while also drawing on concepts from the books and
records requirements applicable to brokers, SEC-registered SROs, and other SEC-registered
entities.
187
Paragraph (a) of proposed Rule 826 repeats the statutory text of the Core Principle.
Paragraph (b) would require an SBSEF to keep full, complete, and systematic records,188 together
with all pertinent data and memoranda, of all activities relating to its business with respect to
SBS. Under paragraph (b), such records would be required to include, without limitation, the
audit trail information required under proposed Rule 819(f) and all other records that an SBSEF
is required to create or obtain under Regulation SE.

186 § 45.2(f) and (g) are marked as “reserved.”
187 See infra Section XIII (discussing in the context of proposed new Rule 15a-12 that an
SBSEF registered with the Commission is also a registered broker and, as such, is subject
to the SEA’s recordkeeping and reporting requirements applicable to brokers).
188 While § 1.31(a) defines the terms “regulatory records” and “electronic regulatory
records” and utilizes them throughout § 1.31, the Commission is utilizing instead the
term “records,” which is defined in Section 3(a)(37) of the SEA, 15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(37).
In doing so, the Commission seeks to avoid any ambiguities or inconsistencies that could
arise by using variants of a term that is defined in the Commission’s governing statute.
The Commission is including a definition of “records” in proposed Rule 802 that crossreferences Section 3(a)(37) of the SEA.
176
Paragraph (c) of proposed Rule 826 would require an SBSEF to keep records of any SBS
from the date of execution until the termination, maturity, expiration, transfer, assignment, or
novation date of the transaction, and for a period of not less than five years, the first two years in
an easily accessible place, after such date. Paragraph (c) also would require an SBSEF to keep
each record (other than a record of an SBS noted in the previous sentence) for a period of not
less than five years, the first two years in an easily accessible place, from the date on which the
record was created. The proposed five-year retention requirements are consistent with Section
3D(d) of the SEA189 and are modelled on the requirements for SEFs in §§ 1.31 and 45.2. The
proposed requirement that the records be kept “in an easily accessible place” for the first two
years derives from an analogous requirement in the Commission’s principal books and records
rule for exchange members, brokers, and dealers.190
Paragraph (d)(1) of proposed Rule 826 would require an SBSEF to retain all records in a
form and manner that ensures the authenticity and reliability of such records in accordance with
the Act and the Commission’s rules thereunder. Paragraph (d)(2) would require an SBSEF, upon
request of any representative of the Commission, to promptly191 furnish to the representative
legible, true, complete, and current copies of any records required to be kept and preserved under
Rule 826. Paragraph (d)(3) would provide that an electronic record shall be retained in a form

189 See 15 U.S.C. 78c-4(d)(9)(A)(i) (requiring an SBSEF to “maintain records of all
activities relating to the business of the facility, including a complete audit trail, in a form
and manner acceptable to the Commission, for a period of five years”) (emphasis added).
190 See Rule 17a-4(b) under the SEA, 17 CFR 240.17a-4(b).
191 In this context, “prompt” or “promptly” means making reasonable efforts to produce
records that are requested by the staff during an examination without delay. The
Commission believes that, in many cases, an SBSEF could, and therefore would be
required to, furnish records immediately or within a few hours of a request. An SBSEF
should produce records within 24 hours unless there are unusual circumstances.
177
and manner that allows for prompt production at the request of any representative of the
Commission. Paragraph (d)(3) also would include provisions modelled on § 1.31(c)(2) requiring
an SBSEF that maintains electronic records to establish appropriate systems and controls that
ensure the authenticity and reliability of electronic records, including, without limitation:
(A) Systems that maintain the security, signature, and data as necessary to ensure the
authenticity of the information contained in electronic records and to monitor compliance with
the SEA and the Commission’s rules thereunder;
(B) Systems that ensure that the SBSEF is able to produce electronic records in
accordance with Rule 826, and ensure the availability of such electronic records in the event of
an emergency or other disruption of the SBSEF’s electronic record retention systems; and
(C) The creation and maintenance of an up-to-date inventory that identifies and describes
each system that maintains information necessary for accessing or producing electronic records.
§§ 1.31 and 43.2 include provisions that govern inspection and production of records.
While the Commission believes that its rules for SBSEFs also should address those topics, the
Commission does not believe that adapting a CFTC rule would be the most appropriate way to
do so. Paragraph (e) of proposed Rule 826 would provide instead that, because a registered
SBSEF is also a registered broker, all records required to be kept by an SBSEF pursuant to Rule
826 would be subject to examination by any representative of the Commission pursuant to
Section 17(b) of the SEA. As noted above, Section 17(b) is the source of the Commission’s
examination authority for registered brokers (among other types of registered entities). Proposed
Rule 826(e) is designed only to remind SBSEFs of this statutory authority and does not seek to
limit or expand that authority using the Commission’s powers over SBSEFs in Section 3D of the
SEA.
178
Proposed Rule 826 includes a paragraph (f) that is not modelled on any provision of
§ 1.31 or 43.2, but rather on § 1.37(c) of the CFTC’s rules, which provides: “Each designated
contract market and swap execution facility shall keep a record in permanent form, which shall
show the true name, address, and principal occupation or business of any foreign trader
executing transactions on the facility or exchange. In addition, upon request, a designated
contract market or swap execution facility shall provide to the Commission information
regarding the name of any person guaranteeing such transactions or exercising any control over
the trading of such foreign trader.” Proposed Rule 826(f) is modelled closely on § 1.37(c),
except that it uses the term “non-U.S. member” rather than “foreign trader.”192
The recordkeeping and reporting requirements proposed in Rule 826 are designed to be
generally consistent with the requirements applicable to SEFs and with the Commission’s
requirements under Section 17(a) of the SEA. The Commission preliminarily believes that
proposed Rule 826 would therefore achieve similar regulatory benefits as the CFTC rules
applicable to SEFs while imposing only marginal costs, since dually registered SEF/SBSEFs are
familiar with the CFTC requirements and have invested in systems, policies, and procedures to
comply with them. The Commission intends that the same systems, policies, and procedures
could be used to comply with parallel SEC requirements.
The Commission seeks comment on the following:
142. Do you agree in general with the Commission’s approach to implementing SEA

192 Since a “foreign trader” in § 1.37(c) is executing transactions on the SEF, it must be a
member of the SEF. Because the term “member” is used elsewhere in the CFTC rules
pertaining to SEFs, the Commission is proposing to use the term “member” throughout
Regulation SE and would define “member” in Rule 802. The term “non-U.S. member,”
also found in proposed Rule 802, would be defined as “a member of a security-based
swap execution facility that is not a U.S. person.”
179
Core Principle 9? Why or why not?
143. Do you believe that the Commission should subject registered SBSEFs to Section
17(a) of the SEA and the Commission’s rules thereunder? Why or why not? If not,
are there nevertheless specific provisions of the Commission’s rules under Section
17(a) that you believe should nevertheless be incorporated into Rule 826 using the
Commission’s statutory authority over SBSEFs in Section 3D of the SEA? If so,
which provision(s) and why?
144. Are there any provisions of proposed Rule 826 that are significantly different
from, or even in conflict with, any recordkeeping requirements imposed on SEFs by
any CFTC rule? If so, please discuss and suggest how you would resolve any such
conflict.
145. Are there any provisions of § 1.31 or 45.2 that the Commission has not proposed
to incorporate into proposed Rule 826 that you believe should be applied to SBSEFs?
If so, which provision(s) and why?
146. Are there any recordkeeping provisions elsewhere in the CFTC rules that the
Commission has not proposed to incorporate into proposed Rule 826 that you believe
should be applied to SBSEFs? If so, which provision(s) and why?
147. Do you believe that the Commission should adapt § 1.37 into proposed Rule
826(f)? Why or why not? Do you believe that the Commission’s proposed term
“non-U.S. member” used in Rule 826(f) is an appropriate substitute for “foreign
trader” used in § 1.37? Why or why not?
J. Rule 827—Core Principle 10—Antitrust considerations
180
SEA Core Principle 10193 provides that, unless necessary or appropriate to achieve the
purposes of the SEA, an SBSEF shall not: (1) adopt any rules or take any actions that result in
any unreasonable restraint of trade, or (2) impose any material anticompetitive burden on trading
or clearing. CEA Core Principle 11194 is substantively identical.
The CFTC implemented CEA Core Principle 11 in Subpart L of Part 37. § 37.1100 of
Subpart L repeats the statutory text of Core Principle 11. § 37.1101 provides that a SEF “may
refer” to the guidance in Appendix B to Part 37 to demonstrate compliance with Core Principle
11. The guidance states that an entity seeking registration as a SEF may request that the CFTC
consider, under the provisions of Section 15(b) of the CEA,
195 any of the entity’s rules—
including trading protocols or policies, and including both operational rules and the terms or
conditions of products listed for trading—at the time of registration or thereafter. The guidance
further states that the CFTC intends to apply CEA Section 15(b) to its consideration of issues
under CEA Core Principle 11 in a manner consistent with that previously applied to contract
markets.
Proposed Rule 827 would implement SEA Core Principle 10 and, like § 37.1100,
reiterates the statutory text of the Core Principle. The Commission is not adapting the guidance

193 Section 3D(d)(10) of the SEA, 15 U.S.C. 78c-4(d)(10).
194 Section 5h(f)(11) of the CEA, 7 U.S.C. 7b-3(f)(11).
195 7 U.S.C. 19(b) (providing that the CFTC shall take into consideration the public interest
to be protected by the antitrust laws and endeavor to take the least anticompetitive means
of achieving the objectives of this chapter of the CEA, as well as the policies and
purposes of this chapter of the CEA, in issuing any order or adopting any CFTC rule or
regulation (including any exemption), or in requiring or approving any bylaw, rule, or
regulation of a contract market or registered futures association).
181
from Appendix B pertaining to CEA Core Principle 11 into a proposed rule.196
The Commission seeks comment on the following:
148. Do you agree with how the Commission is proposing to implement SEA Core
Principle 10? Why or why not?
K. Rule 828—Core Principle 11—Conflicts of interest
SEA Core Principle 11197 requires an SBSEF to establish and enforce rules to minimize
conflicts of interest in its decision-making process and to establish a process for resolving the
conflicts of interest. CEA Core Principle 12198 is substantively identical.
The CFTC implemented CEA Core Principle 12 in Subpart M of Part 37. § 37.1200 of

196 The guidance in Appendix B of Part 37 pertaining to CEA Core Principle 10 for SEFs
states: “An entity seeking registration as a [SEF] may request that the [CFTC] consider
under the provisions of section 15(b) of the [CEA], any of the entity’s rules, including
trading protocols or policies, and including both operational rules and the terms or
conditions of products listed for trading, at the time of registration or thereafter. The
[CFTC] intends to apply section 15(b) of the [CEA] to its consideration of issues under
this core principle in a manner consistent with that previously applied to contract
markets.” Section 15(b) of the CEA, 7 U.S.C. 19(b) states: “The [CFTC] shall take into
consideration the public interest to be protected by the antitrust laws and endeavor to take
the least anticompetitive means of achieving the objectives of this chapter, as well as the
policies and purposes of this chapter, in issuing any order or adopting any [CFTC] rule or
regulation (including any exemption under section 6(c) or 6c(b) of this title), or in
requiring or approving any bylaw, rule, or regulation of a contract market or registered
futures association established pursuant to section 21 of this title.” The Commission does
not believe that it is appropriate to adapt this guidance into a rule that applies to SBSEFs
because the SEA (which applies to SBSEFs) does not have a provision that is closely
comparable to Section 15(b) of the CEA (which applies to SEFs). Furthermore, the
guidance pertaining to CEA Core Principle 10 for SEFs sets out only a general approach
to how the CFTC addresses antitrust issues applying to SEFs and does not include
provisions that can readily be adapted into rule text.
197 Section 3D(d)(11) of the SEA, 15 U.S.C. 78c-4(d)(11).
198 7 U.S.C. 7b-3(f)(12).
182
Subpart M repeats the statutory text of Core Principle 12. There are no other provisions in
Subpart M, nor is there any guidance or acceptable practices associated with Core Principle 12 in
Appendix B to Part 37.199
Proposed Rule 828 would implement SEA Core Principle 11. Paragraph (a) of proposed
Rule 828, like § 37.1200, repeats the statutory text of the Core Principle. Paragraph (b) would
direct an SBSEF to comply with the requirements of proposed Rule 834, which, as discussed
below, would implement Section 765 of the Dodd-Frank Act for both SBSEFs and SBS
exchanges.
200
The Commission seeks comment on the following:
149. Do you agree with how the Commission is proposing to implement SEA Core
Principle 11 in Rule 828? Why or why not?
150. The Commission is proposing to subject SBS exchanges and SBSEFs to the same
conflicts-of-interest requirements, in Rule 834. Therefore, proposed Rule 828 crossreferences proposed Rule 834 rather than enumerating conflicts-of-interest
requirements for SBSEFs separate from those for SBS exchanges. Do you believe
that this is an appropriate way to structure the proposed rules? Why or why not? Are
 199 The CFTC has proposed additional rules regarding the mitigation of conflicts of interest
but has not adopted any such rules. See CFTC, Requirements for Derivatives Clearing
Organizations, Designated Contract Markets, and Swap Execution Facilities Regarding
the Mitigation of Conflicts of Interest, 75 FR 63732 (October 18, 2010); CFTC,
Governance Requirements for Derivatives Clearing Organizations, Designated Contract
Markets, and Swap Execution Facilities; Additional Requirements Regarding the
Mitigation of Conflicts of Interest, 76 FR 722 (January 6, 2011).
200 See infra Section X.
183
there any conflicts-of-interest requirements that you believe should be applied to
SBSEFs but not to SBS exchanges? If so, what requirement(s) and why?
L. Rule 829—Core Principle 12—Financial resources
SEA Core Principle 12201 has a paragraph (A) that requires an SBSEF to have adequate
financial, operational, and managerial resources to discharge each responsibility of the SBSEF,
as determined by the Commission. Paragraph (B) of SEA Core Principle 12 provides that the
financial resources of an SBSEF shall be considered to be adequate if the value of the financial
resources: (i) enables the organization to meet its financial obligations to its members and
participants notwithstanding a default by the member or participant creating the largest financial
exposure for that organization in extreme but plausible market conditions; and (ii) exceeds the
amount that would enable the SBSEF to cover operating costs of the SBSEF for a one-year
period, as calculated on a rolling basis. CEA Core Principle 13 for SEFs202 is substantively
identical with respect to paragraphs (A) and (B)(ii) of SEA Core Principle 12, but lacks an
equivalent to paragraph (B)(i) of SEA Core Principle 12.
The CFTC implemented CEA Core Principle 13 for SEFs in Subpart N of Part 37.
§ 37.1300 of Subpart N repeats the statutory text of CEA Core Principle 13. § 37.1301 provides
that financial resources shall be considered adequate if their value exceeds the total amount that
would enable a SEF to cover its projected operating costs necessary for the SEF to comply with
Section 5h of the CEA and applicable CFTC regulations for a one-year period, calculated on a
rolling basis. § 37.1302 describes the types of financial resources that may satisfy the

201 Section 3D(d)(12) of the SEA, 15 U.S.C. 78c-4(d)(12).
202 Section 5h(f)(13) of the CEA, 7 U.S.C. 7b-3(f)(13).
184
requirements of § 37.1301. § 37.1303 provides that the financial resources allocated by the SEF
to meet the financial resources requirements shall include unencumbered, liquid financial assets
equal to at least the greater of three months of projected operating costs or the projected costs
needed to wind down the SEF’s operations. If a SEF lacks sufficient unencumbered, liquid
financial assets, it may satisfy this obligation by obtaining a committed line of credit in an
amount at least equal to the deficiency. § 37.1304 requires a SEF, each fiscal quarter, to make a
reasonable calculation of its projected operating costs and wind-down costs in order to determine
its applicable obligations under this section. It further provides that the SEF shall have
reasonable discretion in determining the methodology used to compute such amounts, provided
that the CFTC may review the methodology and require changes as appropriate. § 37.1305
provides that, no less than each fiscal quarter, a SEF must compute the current market value of
each financial resource used to meet its obligations under §§ 37.1301 and 37.1303 and that
reductions in value to reflect market and credit risk (“haircuts”) shall be applied as appropriate.
§ 37.1306 addresses reporting to the CFTC. Paragraph (a) of § 37.1306 provides that,
each fiscal quarter, or at any time upon CFTC request, a SEF shall report the amount of financial
resources necessary to meet the requirements of §§ 37.1301 and 37.1303 and the market value of
each financial resource available, and provide the CFTC with financial statements, including the
balance sheet, income statement, and statement of cash flows of the SEF, prepared in accordance
with U.S. generally acceptable accounting principles (“GAAP”). Paragraph (a) further provides
that the financial statements of a SEF that is not domiciled in the United States and is not
otherwise required to prepare financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP may instead
prepare its financial statements in accordance with either International Financial Reporting
Standards issued by the International Accounting Standards Board or a comparable international
185
standard as the CFTC may otherwise accept in its discretion. Paragraph (b) provides that the
calculations required under paragraph (a) shall be made as of the last business day of the SEF’s
fiscal quarter. Paragraph (c) requires the SEF to provide the CFTC with sufficient
documentation to explain its methodology for computing its financial requirements under
§§ 37.1301 and 37.1303. Further, paragraph (c) of § 37.1306 requires that the documentation
must allow the CFTC to reliably determine, without additional requests for information, that the
SEF has made reasonable calculations pursuant to § 37.1304. Paragraph (d) of § 37.1306
provides that these reports and supporting documentation shall be filed within 40 calendar days
of the end of the SEF’s first three fiscal quarters, and within 90 calendar days of the end of the
SEF’s fourth fiscal quarter, or at such later time as the CFTC may permit. Paragraph (e) requires
a SEF to provide notice to the CFTC no later than 48 hours after it knows or reasonably should
know that it no longer meets its obligations under §§ 37.1301 and 37.1303.
Proposed Rule 829 would implement SEA Core Principle 12 and is based closely on
Subpart N of Part 37.203 Because this Core Principle relates to the business operations of the
trading venue, very few modifications are necessary to adapt the CFTC rule to apply to SBSEFs.
Therefore, proposed Rule 829 is closely modelled on the rules in Subpart N.
However, one slight difference in the rule text stems from the Commission’s global
approach to adapting the CFTC’s guidance and acceptable practices from Appendix B to Part 37
into formal rules, where appropriate. Although the Commission considered proposing a separate

203 However, paragraph (a)(2)(i) of proposed Rule 829 would include the additional
language in SEA Core Principle 12 that is not present in CEA Core Principle 13. As
noted above, this language relates to an SBSEF meeting financial obligations to members
and participants notwithstanding a default by the member or participant creating the
largest financial exposure for the SBSEF in extreme but plausible market conditions.
186
rule that adapts the guidance in Appendix B pertaining to CEA Core Principle 13, the
Commission is proposing instead to weave the concepts and some of the specific language from
the CFTC guidance relating to financial resources into paragraph (e) of proposed Rule 829, as
the guidance relates only to that portion of the proposed rule. Proposed Rule 829(e) begins by
incorporating the provisions of § 37.1304 regarding computation of costs to meet the financial
resources requirement. Proposed Rule 829(e) then appends language based on the CFTC
guidance concerning the following topics, all of which relate to computation of costs: (i)
reasonableness of calculating projected operating costs and what may be excluded from such
calculation; (ii) proration of expenses; and (iii) allocation of expenses among affiliates.
Another non-substantive difference between proposed Rule 829 and Subpart N of Part 37
is the requirement in proposed Rule 829(g)(6) for an SBSEF to submit reports and
documentation to the Commission using the EDGAR system as an Interactive Data File, in
accordance with Rule 405 of Regulation S-T. The Commission is proposing this requirement
here and in other locations to implement the Inline XBRL and EDGAR electronic filing
requirements for various documents that would have to be provided to the Commission under
proposed Regulation SE.
The Commission preliminarily believes that the CFTC has implemented its equivalent
Core Principle in an appropriate way, and that closely harmonizing with the CFTC rule would
provide comparable regulatory benefits while imposing only marginal additional costs. Given
that most if not all entities that will seek to register with the SEC as SBSEFs are already
registered with the CFTC as SEFs, these entities already have in place the processes and controls
to designed to comply with Subpart N. Furthermore, the Commission recognizes that the swap
business of a dually registered SEF/SBSEF is likely to be much larger than its SBS business.
187
Therefore, the greatest risk to a dually registered entity is likely to arise from the swap business
rather than the SBS business, so it would be logical for the SEC to defer to the CFTC’s approach
for ensuring that SEFs have adequate financial resources. Different or additive requirements
imposed by the SEC could increase costs for SEF/SBSEFs while generating benefits that are
marginal at best. The Commission does not observe any differences in the SBS market relative
to the swap market that warrant imposing different or additive financial resource requirements on
SBSEFs.
The Commission seeks comment on the following:
151. Do you agree in general with the Commission’s approach to implementing SEA
Core Principle 12? Why or why not?
152. In particular, do you agree with how the Commission is proposing to adapt the
language of Subpart N of Part 37 into proposed Rule 829? If not, how would you
revise that language?
153. How does the anticipated size of the SBS trading business on dually registered
SEF/SBSEFs relative to the size of swap trading business affect your view of the
financial resource requirements that the SEC should impose on dually registered
entities? Do you agree that there would be only marginal additional costs imposed on
dually registered entities to provide the same financial information at the same times
to both the SEC and CFTC (pursuant to proposed Rule 829 and Subpart N,
respectively)? Why or why not?
154. Are there provisions of Subpart N that the SEC should not incorporate, even if
you believe that the SEC should harmonize with the majority of Subpart N? In other
words, are there areas where omitting a Subpart N provision would reduce burdens on
188
SBSEFs and/or their members without lessening any regulatory benefits? If so,
please explain, with particular regard to the economic impacts and/or PRA burdens.
155. Should the Commission adopt different or additive financial resource
requirements for SBSEFs, even if there is no analogous provisions in Subpart N? If
so, please explain, with particular regards to the economic impacts and/or PRA
burdens. For example, do you believe that the SEC-specific provision would impose
additional costs or burdens on SBSEFs and/or their members that are nevertheless
appropriate in view of new and additional benefits? Or do you believe that the SECspecific provision would be appropriate because it would relieve costs or burdens that
are imposed on SEFs by Subpart N that, in your view, are unnecessary or
inappropriate for SBSEFs?
156. Do you agree with how the Commission is proposing to adapt the CFTC guidance
pertaining to its equivalent Core Principle by converting it into formal rule text? Why
or why not? Would adapting the CFTC guidance into the Commission’s rules
necessitate any changes in how financial resources are calculated?
M. Rule 830—Core Principle 13—System safeguards
Paragraph (A) of SEA Core Principle 13204 provides that an SBSEF must establish and
maintain a program of risk analysis and oversight to identify and minimize sources of operational
risk, through the development of appropriate controls and procedures, and automated systems,
that are reliable and secure and that have adequate scalable capacity. Paragraph (B) requires that
an SBSEF also must establish and maintain emergency procedures, backup facilities, and a plan
 204 Section 3D(d)(13)(A) of the SEA, 15 U.S.C. 78c-4(d)(13).
189
for disaster recovery that allow for the timely recovery and resumption of operations; and the
fulfillment of the responsibilities and obligations of the SBSEF. Finally, paragraph (C) of SEA
Core Principle 13 requires an SBSEF to periodically conduct tests to verify that the backup
resources of the SBSEF are sufficient to ensure continued order processing and trade matching;
price reporting; market surveillance; and maintenance of a comprehensive and accurate audit
trail. CEA Core Principle 14205 is substantively identical to SEA Core Principle 13.
Subpart O of Part 37 is entitled “System Safeguards” and implements CEA Core
Principle 14. § 37.1400 of Subpart O repeats the statutory text of the Core Principle. § 37.1401
sets forth detailed requirements for a SEF to comply with the Core Principle. Paragraph (a) of
§ 37.1401 requires a SEF’s program of risk analysis and oversight to address enterprise risk
management and governance, information security, business continuity-disaster recovery
planning and resources, capacity and performance planning, systems operations, systems
development and quality assurance, and physical security and operational controls. Paragraph
(b) provides that, in addressing the categories of risk analysis and oversight required under
paragraph (a), a SEF shall follow generally accepted standards and best practices with respect to
the development, operation, reliability, security, and capacity of automated systems. Paragraph
(c) requires a SEF to maintain a business continuity-disaster recovery plan and business
continuity-disaster recovery resources, emergency procedures, and backup facilities that satisfy
several enumerated criteria. Paragraph (d) explains how a SEF that is not determined by the
CFTC to be a critical financial market may satisfy its requirement to be able to resume its
operations and resume its ongoing fulfillment of its responsibilities and obligations during the
 205 Section 5h(f)(14) of the CEA, 7 U.S.C. 7b-3(f)(14).
190
next business day following any disruption of its operations.
Paragraph (e) of § 37.1401 requires a SEF to notify the CFTC promptly of all electronic
trading halts and material system malfunctions; cyber security incidents or targeted threats that
actually or potentially jeopardize automated system operation, reliability, security, or capacity;
and activations of SEF’s business continuity-disaster recovery plan. Paragraph (f) requires the
SEF to provide CFTC staff timely advance notice of all material planned changes to automated
systems that may impact the reliability, security, or adequate scalable capacity of such systems;
and planned changes to the SEF’s program of risk analysis and oversight. Paragraph (g) sets
forth recordkeeping requirements related to the SEF’s system safeguards. Paragraph (h) requires
the SEF to conduct testing and review of its automated systems and business continuity-disaster
recovery capabilities and provides several definitions for terms used in paragraph (h). Paragraph
(h) also requires the SEF to conduct “vulnerability testing,” “external penetration testing,”
“internal penetration testing,” “controls testing,” “security incident response plan testing,” and
“enterprise technology risk assessment” subject to various enumerated criteria.
Paragraph (i) of § 37.1401 provides that the SEF, to the extent practicable, shall
coordinate its business continuity-disaster recovery plan with those of the market participants
that it depends upon to provide liquidity, in a manner adequate to enable effective resumption of
activity in its markets following a disruption causing activation of the SEF’s business continuitydisaster recovery plan. Paragraph (i) also requires the SEF to initiate and coordinate periodic,
synchronized testing of its business continuity-disaster recovery plan with those of the market
participants it depends upon to provide liquidity; and to ensure that its business continuitydisaster recovery plan takes into account the business continuity-disaster recovery plans of its
telecommunications, power, water, and other essential service providers.
191
Paragraph (j) of § 37.1401 provides that Part 40 of the CFTC’s rules shall govern the
obligations of those registered entities that the CFTC has determined to be critical financial
markets, with respect to maintenance and geographic dispersal of disaster recovery resources
sufficient to meet a same-day recovery time objective in the event of a wide-scale disruption.
Paragraph (k) sets forth criteria for the scope for all system safeguard testing and assessment
required under the rule. Paragraph (l) requires that both the senior management and the board of
directors of the SEF shall receive and review reports setting forth the results of the testing and
assessment required by the rule. Paragraph (m) requires the SEF to identify and document the
vulnerabilities and deficiencies in its systems revealed by testing and assessment, conduct and
document an appropriate analysis of the risks presented by such vulnerabilities and deficiencies,
and remediate in a timely manner given the nature and magnitude of the associated risk.
Proposed Rule 830 is closely modelled on Subpart O of Part 37 of the CFTC’s rules,
except in one aspect. Subpart O includes language relating to “critical financial markets,”206
which is a designation applied by the CFTC to certain of its registrants that would subject them
to more stringent requirements, although the CFTC has not yet adopted any such requirements.207

206 See § 37.1401(c) (providing that SEFs determined by the CFTC to be critical financial
markets are subject to more stringent requirements); § 37.1401(d); § 37.1401(j)
(providing that Part 40 governs the obligations of registered entities that the CFTC has
determined to be critical financial markets, with respect to maintenance and geographic
dispersal of disaster recovery resources sufficient to meet a same-day recovery time
objective in the event of a wide-scale disruption).
207 The provisions in Subpart O relating to “critical financial markets” reference § 40.9 of
the CFTC’s rules, which is marked as “Reserved.”
192
A similar concept in the SEC’s rules is “SCI entity.”208 When adopting Regulation SCI, the
Commission considered whether it should apply Regulation SCI to SBSEFs, among other
entities, and determined not to do so.209 Because SBSEFs are not SCI entities and the
corresponding CFTC rule has not imposed additional requirements on critical financial markets,
the Commission preliminarily believes that it is not necessary or appropriate to adapt into Rule
830 the language of Subpart O applicable to critical financial markets.210
The Commission preliminarily believes that Subpart O is reasonably designed to promote
SEF operational capability, and that the most appropriate way to implement SEA Core Principle
13 would be to closely harmonize with the CFTC’s rules that implement the corresponding Core
Principle. As with SEA Core Principle 12 (Financial resources), the Commission recognizes that
the swap business of a dually registered SEF/SBSEF is likely to be much larger than its SBS
business. Therefore, the greatest operational risk to a dually registered entity is likely to arise
from the swap business rather than the SBS business, so it would be logical for the SEC to defer
to the CFTC’s approach for ensuring that SEFs have adequate system safeguards and business
 208 See Rule 1000 of Regulation SCI (defining “SCI entity”). In November 2014, the
Commission adopted Regulation Systems Compliance and Integrity (“SCI”) to strengthen
the technology infrastructure of the U.S. securities markets, reduce the occurrence of
systems issues in those markets, improve their resiliency when technological issues arise,
and establish an updated and formalized regulatory framework, thereby helping to ensure
more effective Commission oversight of such systems. See Regulation Systems
Compliance and Integrity, SEA Release No. 73639 (November 19, 2014), 79 FR 72252
(December 5, 2014).
209 See id., 79 FR at 72363-64 (reviewing comments received regarding the potential
application of Regulation SCI to SBSEFs, among others).
210 The Commission also notes that, while Subpart O frequently uses the term “market
participant,” proposed Rule 830 substitutes the term “member” in these places, since the
rule pertains to market participants who are engaging as members of the SEF/SBSEF.
See supra note 53.
193
continuity protocols. Different or additive requirements imposed by the SEC could increase
costs for SEF/SBSEFs while generating benefits that are marginal at best. The Commission does
not observe any differences in the SBS market relative to the swap market that warrant imposing
different or additive operational capability requirements on SBSEFs.
The Commission seeks comment on the following:
157. Do you agree in general with how the Commission is proposing to implement
SEA Core Principle 13 in proposed Rule 830? Why or why not?
158. In particular, do you believe that close harmonization with Subpart O of the
CFTC’s rules is appropriate? If not, is there another framework for system
safeguards that would be more appropriate for SBSEFs? What would be the
economic impact of the SEC adopting different or additive system safeguard
requirements in the case of dually registered SEF/SBSEFs?
159. As noted above,211 the Commission previously determined not to subject SBSEFs
to Regulation SCI. Do you see any changes in the SBS market that should cause the
Commission to revisit that decision?
160. Do you believe it is appropriate to omit from Rule 830 the provisions of
Subpart O relating to critical financial markets? Why or why not?
161. Are there provisions of Subpart O that the SEC should not incorporate, even if the
SEC opts to harmonize with most of Subpart O? In other words, are there areas
where omitting a Subpart O provision would reduce burdens on SBSEFs and/or their
members without lessening any regulatory benefits? If so, please explain, with
 211 See supra note 209 and accompanying text.
194
particular regard to the economic impacts and/or PRA burdens.
162. Should the Commission adopt different or additive system safeguard requirements
for SBSEFs, even if there is no analog to such provisions in Subpart O? If so, please
explain, with particular regards to the economic impacts and/or PRA burdens. For
example, do you believe that the SEC-specific provision would impose additional
costs or burdens on SBSEFs and/or their market participants that are nevertheless
appropriate in view of new and additional benefits? Or do you believe that the SECspecific provision would be appropriate because it would relieve costs or burdens that
are imposed on SEFs by Subpart O that, in your view, are unnecessary or
inappropriate for SBSEFs?
N. Rule 831—Core Principle 14—Designation of chief compliance officer
SEA Core Principle 14212 requires each registered SBSEF to designate a chief compliance
officer (“CCO”), and requires the CCO to review the SBSEF’s compliance with the Core
Principles, resolve conflicts of interest, be responsible for establishing and administering policies
and procedures required under the Core Principles, establish procedures for the remediation of
noncompliance, prepare and sign an annual report that describes the SBSEF’s compliance,
certify that the report is accurate and complete, and submit the report to the Commission. CEA
Core Principle 15 for SEFs213 is substantively identical.
The CFTC implemented CEA Core Principle 15 in Subpart P of Part 37. § 37.1500 of
Subpart P repeats the statutory text of CEA Core Principle 15. § 37.1501(a) sets forth definitions
 212 Section 3D(d)(14) of the SEA, 15 U.S.C. 78c-4(d)(14).
213 Section 5h(f)(15) of the CEA, 7 U.S.C. 7b-3(f)(15).
195
for the terms “board of directors” and “senior officer.” § 37.1501(b)(1) provides that the
position of CCO shall carry with it the authority and resources to develop, in consultation with
the board of directors or senior officer, and enforce the SEF’s policies and procedures, and that
the CCO shall have supervisory authority over all staff acting at the direction of the CCO.
§ 37.1501(b)(2) through (4) include provisions relating to the qualifications of the CCO,
appointment and removal of the CCO, and compensation of the CCO. § 37.1501(b)(5) through
(6) state that the CCO must meet with the SEF’s board of directors or senior officer at least
annually, and the CCO must provide any information regarding the SEF’s self-regulatory
program as requested by the board of directors or the senior officer.
§ 37.1501(c) sets out the duties of the CCO, including overseeing and reviewing the
SEF’s compliance with the Core Principles; taking reasonable steps, in consultation with the
board of directors or senior officer, to resolve any material conflicts of interest; establishing and
administering written policies and procedures reasonably designed to prevent violations of the
CEA and the rules of the CFTC; taking reasonable steps to ensure compliance with the CEA and
CFTC rules; establishing procedures reasonably designed to handle, respond, remediate, retest,
and resolve noncompliance issues identified by the CCO; establishing and administering a
compliance manual and a written code of ethics for the SEF; supervising the self-regulatory
program of the SEF with respect to trade practice surveillance, market surveillance, real-time
market monitoring, compliance with audit trail requirements, enforcement and disciplinary
proceedings, audits, examinations, and other regulatory responsibilities; and supervising the
effectiveness and sufficiency of any regulatory services provided to the SEF by a regulatory
service provider.
§ 37.1501(d) requires the CCO to prepare and sign an annual compliance report that
196
covers the prior fiscal year. The report must contain, at a minimum: a description and selfassessment of the effectiveness of the SEF’s written policies and procedures, code of ethics, and
conflict of interest policies; any material changes made to compliance policies and procedures
during the coverage period for the report and any areas of improvement or recommended
changes to the compliance program; a description of the financial, managerial, and operational
resources set aside for compliance with the CEA and applicable CFTC regulations; any material
non-compliance matters identified and an explanation of the corresponding action taken to
resolve them; and CCO certification that the annual compliance report is accurate and complete.
§ 37.1501(e) requires the CCO to provide the annual compliance report to the SEF’s
board of directors or a senior officer for review before submitting it to the CFTC, and the board
or the senior office may not require the CCO to make any changes to the report. § 37.1501(e)
further provides that the annual compliance report shall be submitted electronically to the CFTC
not later than 90 calendar days after the end of the SEF’s fiscal year and concurrently with the
fourth-quarter financial report pursuant to § 37.1306. § 37.1501(e) also addresses amendments
to and requests for extensions for the annual compliance report.
§ 37.1501(f) requires the SEF to maintain all records demonstrating compliance with the
duties of the CCO and the preparation and submission of annual compliance report, consistent
with §§ 37.1000 and 37.1001. Finally, Appendix B to Part 37 includes “acceptable practices”
regarding the qualifications of a CCO and the SEF’s discretion in choosing one, as well as the
need to be vigilant regarding conflicts of interest when appointing a CCO.
Proposed Rule 831 would implement SEA Core Principle 14 and is closely modelled on
197
Subpart P of Part 37, with two minor substantive exceptions.214 The first relates to
disqualification of the CCO. § 37.1501(b)(2)(ii) states: “No individual disqualified from
registration pursuant to sections 8a(2) or 8a(3) of the [CEA] may serve as a chief compliance
officer.” The Commission preliminarily believes that SBSEFs, like SEFs, should be subject to a
rule setting out criteria for disqualification of the CCO. However, the SEC cannot crossreference provisions of the CEA, since the CEA does not apply to SBSEFs. The Commission
consulted Sections 8a(2) and 8a(3) of the CEA,215 but believes they are not easily adaptable into
a rule applicable to SBSEFs and their CCOs. The Commission is proposing instead, in Rule
831(c)(2), that no individual that would be disqualified from serving on an SBSEF’s governing
board216 or committees pursuant to the criteria set forth in § 242.819(i) may serve as the CCO.
As noted above,217 the disqualification criteria in proposed Rule 819(i) are adapted from § 1.63
of the CFTC’s rules. Second, the Commission has adapted the acceptable practices pertaining to
CEA Core Principle 15 into paragraph (c) of proposed Rule 831.218

214 In addition, the requirement in proposed Rule 831 that the CCO’s annual compliance
report be submitted electronically to the Commission, based on § 37.1501(e)(2), includes
an added clause to provide that the submission must be made using the EDGAR system
and must be provided as an Interactive Data File in accordance with Rule 405 of
Regulation S-T, in conformance with other rules in Regulation SE requiring electronic
submissions. See proposed Rule 831(j)(2); supra note 55.
215 7 U.S.C. 12a(2) and 12a(3).
216 The Commission notes that Subpart P uses the term “board of directors,” while the
Commission is proposing to use the term “governing board” instead throughout proposed
Regulation SE. See supra note 29.
217 See supra Section VIII(B)(2)(b).
218 Proposed Rule 831(c) provides that, in determining whether the background and skills of
a potential CCO are appropriate for fulfilling the responsibilities of the role of the CCO,
an SBSEF has the discretion to base its determination on the totality of the qualifications
of the potential CCO, including, but not limited to, compliance experience, related career
experience, training, potential conflicts of interest, and any other relevant factors.
198
The Commission preliminarily believes that the CFTC has implemented CEA Core
Principle 14 for SEFs in an appropriate way, and that closely harmonizing with Subpart P of Part
37 would yield comparable regulatory benefits while imposing only marginal additional costs.
The Commission recognizes that the swap business of a dually registered SEF/SBSEF is likely to
be much larger than its SBS business. Therefore, the greatest compliance risks to a dually
registered entity are likely to arise from the swap business rather than the SBS business, so it
would be logical for the SEC to harmonize with the CFTC’s rules regarding the CCO. There are
strong economic incentives for a dually registered entity to appoint the same individual to serve
as the CCO for both the swap and SBS businesses, and for the CCO to carry out their functions
under a similar set of rules. Different or additive requirements imposed by the SEC could
increase costs for SEF/SBSEFs while generating benefits that are marginal at best. The
Commission does not observe any differences in the SBS market relative to the swap market that
warrant imposing different or additive CCO requirements on SBSEFs relating to the CCO.
The Commission seeks comment on the following:
163. Do you agree in general with how the Commission is proposing to implement
SEA Core Principle 14? Why or why not?
164. In particular, do you agree that close harmonization with Subpart P is
appropriate? Are there provisions of Subpart P that the SEC should not incorporate,
even if the SEC opts to harmonize with most of Subpart P? In other words, are there
areas where omitting a Subpart P provision would reduce burdens on SBSEFs and/or
their members without lessening any regulatory benefits? If so, please explain, with
particular regard to the economic impacts and/or PRA burdens.
165. Should the Commission adopt different or additive CCO requirements for
199
SBSEFs, even if there is no analog to such provisions in Subpart P? If so, please
explain, with particular regards to the economic impacts and/or PRA burdens. For
example, do you believe that the SEC-specific provision would impose additional
costs or burdens on SBSEFs and/or their members that are nevertheless appropriate
in view of new and additional benefits? Or do you believe that the SEC-specific
provision would be appropriate because it would relieve costs or burdens that are
imposed on SEFs by Subpart P that, in your view, are unnecessary or inappropriate
for SBSEFs?
166. Do you agree with how the Commission is proposing to adapt the acceptable
practices from Appendix B relating to CEA Core Principle 15 into proposed Rule
831(c)? Why or why not?
167. Do you agree with proposed Rule 831(c)(2) using a cross-reference to proposed
Rule 819(i) to incorporate disqualification criteria for the CCO? Why or why not? If
not, what alternate standard would you suggest for the disqualification criteria, and
why?
IX. Cross-Border Rules
A. Rule 832—Cross-border mandatory trade execution
As noted above,219 Section 3C(h) of the SEA provides that an SBS that is subject to
mandatory clearing can become subject to the trade execution requirement.220 The trade
 219 See supra note 106 and accompanying text.
220 Even if an SBS is subject to mandatory clearing, it will not be subject to the trade
execution requirement if no exchange or SBSEF makes the SBS available to trade or the
SBS is subject to an exception from the clearing requirement under Section 3C(g) of the
200
execution requirement, like other provisions of the SEA, is subject to jurisdictional constraints
which are particularly germane in light of the global nature of the SBS market, where there is
frequent interaction among counterparties domiciled in different jurisdictions. Proposed Rule
832 of Regulation SE is designed to address when the SEA’s trade execution requirement applies
to a cross-border SBS transaction.
Paragraph (a) of proposed Rule 832 would provide that the trade execution requirement
set forth in Section 3C(h) of the SEA shall not apply to an SBS unless at least one counterparty
to the SBS is a “covered person” as defined in paragraph (b). Paragraph (b) of proposed Rule
832 would define the term “covered person,” with respect to a particular security-based swap, as
any person that is a U.S. person; a non-U.S. person whose performance under an SBS is
guaranteed by a U.S. person; or a non-U.S. person who, in connection with its SBS dealing
activity, uses U.S. personnel located in a U.S. branch or office, or personnel of an agent of such
non-U.S. person located in a U.S. branch or office, to arrange, negotiate, or execute a
transaction.
221
Thus, a particular SBS would fall within the jurisdictional reach of Section 3C(h) of the
SEA if at least one side had a connection to the United States of a type specified in paragraph

SEA. In addition, as discussed above in Section VII(F)(2), proposed Rule 816(e) would
provide certain additional exemptions from the trade execution requirement.
221 The proposed term “covered person” is designed to apply on a transaction-by-transaction
basis. In other words, if a non-U.S. person were guaranteed by a U.S. person on a
specific SBS or utilized U.S. personnel in connection with its dealing activities to
arrange, negotiate, or execute a specific SBS, that person would be a covered person with
respect to that SBS, but not necessarily with respect to other SBS. Because domicile is
generally static, a person who is a U.S. person would be a covered person with respect to
all of its SBS transactions.
201
(b)(1), (b)(2), or (b)(3) of proposed Rule 832. The trade execution requirement would not apply
to an SBS transaction—even if the SBS were subject to mandatory clearing and MAT—if neither
side had a connection to the United States of a type specified in proposed Rule 832.
Proposed Rule 832 is consistent with the Commission’s territorial approach to applying
Title VII requirements in other contexts. The Commission previously has stated that Title VII
requirements “apply to all SBS transactions that exist in whole or in part within the United
States, unless an exception applies.”222 Relevant activity need not occur wholly within the
United States or solely between U.S. persons in order for Title VII requirements to apply.223 For
example, under Rule 908(a)(1) of Regulation SBSR,224 the Title VII requirements for regulatory
reporting and public dissemination apply to an SBS transaction even if only one counterparty to
the transaction is a U.S. person. As the Commission previously stated, “any security-based swap
executed by a U.S. person exists at least in part within the United States.”225 This is true even if
a transaction is effected through the foreign branch of a U.S. person, because “a foreign branch
 222 Regulation SBSR Adopting Release I, 80 FR at 14652 (discussing cross-border
application of Title VII requirements for regulatory reporting and public dissemination of
SBS transactions).
223 See SEA Release No. 72472 (June 25, 2014), 79 FR 47278, 47286 (“Cross-Border
Adopting Release”) (stating that applying Title VII only to persons incorporated,
organized, or established within the United States or only to SBS activity occurring
entirely within the United States would inappropriately exclude from regulation a
majority of SBS activity that involves U.S. persons or otherwise involves conduct within
the United States, even though such activity raises the types of concerns that the
Commission believed Congress intended to address through Title VII).
224 17 CFR 242.908(a)(1).
225 Regulation SBSR Adopting Release I, 80 FR at 14652.
202
has no separate existence from the U.S. person itself.”226
The Commission also has found it consistent with the territorial approach to apply Title
VII requirements where one counterparty of an SBS transaction is a non-U.S. person whose
performance under an SBS is guaranteed by a U.S. person.227 As the Commission stated when
applying this criterion to Title VII reporting: “A security-based swap with a U.S.-person indirect
counterparty [i.e., guarantor] is economically equivalent to a security-based swap with a U.S.-
person direct counterparty, and both kinds of security-based swaps exist, at least in part, within
the United States . . . [T]he presence of a U.S. guarantor facilitates the activity of the non-U.S.
person who is guaranteed and, as a result, the security-based swap activity of the non-U.S.
person cannot reasonably be isolated from the U.S. person’s activity in providing the
guarantee.”228
 226 Id. See also Cross-Border Adopting Release, 79 FR at 47289 (discussing the
Commission’s rationale for viewing a foreign branch of an SBS dealer as an integral part
of the SBS dealer).
227 See, e.g., Regulation SBSR Adopting Release I, 80 FR at 14653. See also Cross-Border
Adopting Release, 79 FR at 47290 (“the guarantee provided by a U.S. person poses risk
to U.S. persons and potentially to the U.S. financial system, and both the non-U.S. person
whose dealing activity is guaranteed and its counterparty rely on the creditworthiness of
the U.S. guarantor when entering into a security-based swap transaction and for the
duration of the security-based swap. The economic reality of this transaction, even
though entered into by a non-U.S. person, is substantially identical, in relevant respects,
to a transaction entered into directly by a U.S. person. Accordingly, in our view, it is
consistent with both the statutory text and with the purposes of the statute to identify such
transactions as occurring within the United States for purposes of Title VII”).
228 Regulation SBSR Adopting Release I, 80 FR at 14653. In addition, Section 30(c) of the
SEA, 15 U.S.C. 78dd(c), authorizes the Commission to apply Title VII requirements to
persons transacting a business “without the jurisdiction of the United States” if they
contravene rules that the Commission has prescribed as “necessary or appropriate to
prevent the evasion of any provision” of Title VII. For the reasons described above, the
Commission does not believe that applying the trade execution requirement to non-U.S.
203
Finally, the Commission also has found it consistent with the territorial approach to apply
Title VII requirements where one counterparty is a non-U.S.-person who, in connection with its
SBS dealing activity, uses U.S. personnel located in a U.S. branch or office, or personnel of an
agent of such non-U.S. person located in a U.S. branch or office, to arrange, negotiate, or execute
(“ANE”) the transaction. As the Commission previously stated when applying the ANE criterion
to Title VII requirements for regulatory reporting and public dissemination: “when a foreign
dealing entity uses U.S. personnel to arrange, negotiate, or execute a transaction in a dealing
capacity, that transaction occurs at least in part within the United States and is relevant to the
U.S. security-based swap market.”229 Declining to apply Title VII requirements to SBS
transactions of foreign dealing entities that use U.S. personnel to engage in ANE transactions
would allow such entities “to exit the Title VII regulatory regime without exiting the U.S.

persons whose performance under an SBS is guaranteed by a U.S. person would cause
the trade execution requirement to apply to persons that are “transact[ing] a business in
security-based swaps without the jurisdiction of the United States.” The Commission
nonetheless preliminarily believes that applying the trade execution requirement to such
persons is also necessary or appropriate as a prophylactic measure to help prevent the
evasion of the provisions of the SEA that were added by the Dodd-Frank Act, and thus
help prevent the relevant purposes of the Dodd-Frank Act from being undermined. See
Cross-Border Adopting Release, 79 FR at 47291-92 (interpreting the anti-evasion
provisions of SEA Section 30(c)). Without this rule, U.S. persons could have an
incentive to evade the trade execution requirement by engaging in SBS via a guaranteed
affiliate, while the economic reality of transactions arising from that activity—including
the risks these transactions introduce to the U.S. market—would be no different in most
respects than transactions entered into directly by U.S. persons.
229 Regulation SBSR Adopting Release II, 81 FR at 53591. See also SEA Release No.
87780 (December 18, 2019), 85 FR 6270, 6271-76 (February 4, 2020) (discussing other
Title VII rules that incorporate ANE criteria and providing guidance on the meaning of
the terms “arranged” and “negotiated” for purposes of these rules).
204
market.”230
The Commission recognizes the difficulties that can arise when a binary requirement,
such as the trade execution requirement, applies in two separate jurisdictions. In other words, if
the counterparties to a cross-border SBS are subject to a trade execution requirement under the
rules of each of their jurisdictions, the counterparties could violate the rules of one jurisdiction
by executing the SBS in one jurisdiction but not the other, or in a manner that is consistent with
the rules of one jurisdiction but potentially not of the other jurisdiction. The following section,
regarding proposed Rule 833, will discuss conditions for allowing an SBS to trade on foreign
venues not registered with the Commission, notwithstanding the SBS being subject to the SEA’s
trade execution requirement and proposed Rule 832.
The Commission seeks comment on the following:
168. Of the SBS products that, in your view, are plausible candidates for mandatory
clearing and mandatory trade execution under the SEA, how frequently do these
products trade on foreign SBS trading venues? Do you believe that the SBS market is
sufficiently regionalized such that cross-border application of the trade execution
 230 Regulation SBSR Adopting Release II, 81 FR at 53591. The Commission does not
believe that applying the trade execution requirement to persons that satisfy the ANE
criterion would cause the trade execution requirement to apply to persons that are
“transact[ing] a business in security-based swaps without the jurisdiction of the United
States,” within the meaning of Section 30(c) of the SEA. See supra note 228. The
Commission also believes that applying the trade execution requirement to such persons
is necessary or appropriate as a prophylactic measure to help prevent the evasion of the
provisions of the SEA that were added by the Dodd-Frank Act, and thus help prevent the
relevant purposes of the Dodd-Frank Act from being undermined. Without this rule, nonU.S. persons could retain the benefits of operating in the United States while avoiding
compliance with the trade execution requirement.
205
requirement might not be a significant issue?
169. Do you believe that the proposed text of Rule 832 is sufficiently clear? If not,
what aspects do you believe require clarification?
B. Rule 833—Cross-border exemptions
1. Exemptions for foreign SBS trading venues
As noted above in discussing proposed Rule 832, the swap and SBS markets are global in
nature, and counterparties domiciled in different jurisdictions frequently trade with each other.231
Proposed Rule 832 is designed to answer the question of when the trade execution requirement
would apply to an individual cross-border SBS transaction. There might be instances where
covered persons (as defined in proposed Rule 832) wish to be members of a foreign trading
venue for SBS (a “foreign SBS trading venue”). Having members who are covered persons, as
defined in Rule 832, with respect to SBS transacted on that venue, whether or not the SBS that
they trade are subject to the SEA’s trade execution requirement, could require the foreign SBS
trading venue to register with the Commission as a national securities exchange or SBSEF.232 In
addition, because a foreign SBS trading venue would be facilitating the execution of SBS
between persons, the foreign SBS trading venue also might be required to register with the
Commission as a broker.
233
 231 See supra Section IX(A).
232 See 15 U.S.C. 78c-4(a)(1) (stating that no person may operate a facility for the trading or
processing of SBS, unless the facility is registered as an SBSEF or national securities
exchange).
233 A “broker” is generally defined as a person engaged in the business of effecting
transactions in securities for the account of others. See Section 3(a)(4) of the SEA, 15
U.S.C. 78c(a)(4). Section 15(a)(1) of the SEA, 15 U.S.C. 78o(a)(1), generally provides
206
A foreign SBS trading venue with members who are covered persons, as defined in Rule
832, with respect to SBS transacted on that venue and that wishes to avoid having to register in
one or more of these capacities could request that the Commission grant it an exemption under
Section 36(a)(1) of the SEA234 by submitting an application pursuant to SEA Rule 0-12.
235
Proposed Rule 833(a) would provide that such an application, relating to the status of the foreign
SBS trading venue under the SEA, may state that the application also is submitted pursuant to
Rule 833(a).236 In such case, the Commission would consider the submission as an application to
exempt the foreign SBS trading venue, with respect to its providing a market place for SBS, from
the definition of “exchange” in Section 3(a)(1) of the SEA;237 the definition of “security-based
swap execution facility” in Section 3(a)(77) of the SEA;
238 the definition of “broker” in Section

that it shall be unlawful for any broker to make use of the mails or any means or
instrumentality of interstate commerce to effect any transactions in, or to induce or
attempt to induce the purchase or sale of, any security unless such broker is registered in
accordance with SEA Section 15(b). See also infra Section XIII (discussing proposed
new Rule 15a-12).
234 15 U.S.C. 78mm(a)(1).
235 17 CFR 240.0-12 (setting forth procedures for filing applications for orders for exemptive
relief under Section 36 of the SEA).
236 An application for an exemption under proposed Rule 833(a) could be submitted by a
foreign SBS trading venue itself or another interested party. For example, a financial
regulatory authority in a foreign jurisdiction could submit an application under proposed
Rule 833(a) on behalf of one or more SBS trading venues licensed and regulated in that
jurisdiction.
237 15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(1).
238 15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(77).
207
3(a)(4) of the SEA;239 and Section 3D(a)(1) of the SEA.
240 Because a foreign SBS trading venue
that obtains an order under SEA Section 36 and proposed Rule 833(a)241 would be exempt from
these definitions and from Section 3D(a)(1) of the SEA, the foreign SBS trading venue would
not be required to register with the Commission as a national securities exchange, SBSEF, or
broker, or comply with other requirements applicable to such entities under the SEA or
Commission rules thereunder.242
Under Section 5h(g) of the CEA,
243 the CFTC may exempt, conditionally or
unconditionally, a SEF from registration if the CFTC finds that the SEF is subject to comparable,
comprehensive supervision and regulation on a consolidated basis by the SEC, a prudential
regulator, or the appropriate governmental authorities in the home country of the facility. The
CFTC has exercised this authority to grant exemptions from SEF registration to swap trading
 239 15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(4).
240 15 U.S.C. 78c-4(a)(1) (stating that no person may operate a facility for the trading or
processing of SBS, unless the facility is registered as an SBSEF or national securities
exchange).
241 For the remainder of this discussion, an exemption under SEA Section 36 and Rule
833(a) will be referred to simply as a “Rule 833(a) exemption.” In addition, the
Commission will use the term “trading venue covered by an exemption order under Rule
833” (or a similar formulation) rather than “exempt exchange,” “exempt SBSEF” or
“exempt broker” because, pursuant to an exemption granted under proposed Rule 833(a),
the covered trading venue would no longer be an exchange, SBSEF, or broker (as defined
by the SEA).
242 However, as discussed further below, the Rule 833(a) exemption is designed to address
only activities related to providing a market place for SBS. An entity that engages in
other SBS-related activity or any activity involving non-SBS securities would need other
authority under the SEA.
243 7 U.S.C. 7b-3(g).
208
venues in the European Union, Japan, and Singapore.244
Proposed Rule 833(a) would set forth how interested parties could make similar requests
for exemptive relief with respect to foreign SBS trading venues. For example, Rule 833(a) lists
four separate provisions of the SEA that the Commission believes generally would have to be
addressed in an exemption request relating to a foreign SBS trading venue’s status under the
SEA. A foreign SBS trading venue that was exempted solely from Section 3D(a)(1) of the SEA,
for example, might still be subject to various requirements under the SEA by virtue of falling
within one or more of the above-noted definitions.245 The exemptive framework set out in
proposed Rule 833(a) is designed to avoid this result.
As with applications for other exemptive relief under Section 36 of the SEA, an applicant
requesting a Rule 833(a) exemption would be required to submit a complete application pursuant
to SEA Rule 0-12. To issue a Rule 833(a) exemption, like any other exemption issued pursuant
to Section 36, the Commission would be required to find that the exemption is necessary or
appropriate in the public interest, and consistent with the protection of investors.246 As
 244 See https://www.cftc.gov/International/ForeignMarketsandProducts/ExemptSEFs (listing
all exemption orders issued by the CFTC under Section 5h(g) of the CEA and subsequent
amendments to those orders).
245 Furthermore, Section 5 of the SEA generally prohibits any broker, dealer, or exchange
from using U.S. jurisdictional means to effect or report a transaction in a security on an
exchange, unless the exchange is registered as a national securities exchange or has
received a low-volume exemption from registration as a national securities exchange.
See 15 U.S.C. 78e. Absent an exemption from the definition of “exchange,” this
provision would apply to a foreign SBS trading venue (and brokers and dealers who are
members of that trading venue) to the extent that it uses U.S. jurisdictional means.
246 See 15 U.S.C. 78mm(a)(1). Unlike the CFTC which has exemptive authority under
Section 5h(g) of the CEA, the Commission would not be required to find that the foreign
209
contemplated by Section 36(a)(1), the Commission may subject a Rule 833(a) exemption to any
conditions that it deems appropriate.
Proposed Rule 833(a) is designed to address only activities relating to providing a market
place for SBS and would not extend to trading in any other type of security or to other activities
with respect to SBS.247 A foreign SBS trading venue covered by an exemption order under Rule
833(a) might offer trading in other types of securities; however, the exemption order would
permit covered persons to trade only SBS on that trading venue without causing the trading
venue to have to register with the Commission as an exchange or SBSEF. The exemption order
would not address any registration obligations that might arise from any other type of exchange
activity by the foreign trading venue.
248
The Commission also emphasizes that a Rule 833(a) exemption would not have any
impact on Section 6(l) of the SEA,249 which makes it unlawful for any person to effect a

trading venue is subject to comparable, comprehensive supervision and regulation by a
U.S. or foreign regulator.
247 For example, although a foreign trading venue covered by a Rule 833(a) exemption
would be exempt from the definition of “broker,” that exemption would extend only to
the operation of a market place for SBS and would not permit the foreign trading venue
to otherwise act as a securities broker using U.S. jurisdictional means.
248 The Commission considered the alternative of requiring that a Rule 833(a) exemption
could apply to a foreign SBS trading venue only if it traded SBS and no other type of
security. The Commission preliminarily believes, however, that this alternative is
unnecessary. Other jurisdictions might have market structures where it is common to
trade SBS and other types of securities on the same trading venue. The Commission
preliminarily believes that it would be inequitable to disqualify such jurisdictions ex ante
from qualifying for a Rule 833(a) exemption. Nevertheless, a foreign SBS trading venue
that benefits from a Rule 833(a) exemption and that offers trading in both SBS and nonSBS securities would have to take appropriate steps to prevent covered persons from
trading non-SBS securities on that trading venue, because the Rule 833(a) exemption
would not cover the trading activity in non-SBS securities.
249 15 U.S.C. 78f(l).
210
transaction in an SBS with or for a person that is not an ECP, unless such transaction is effected
on a national securities exchange registered pursuant to Section 6(b) of the SEA. Because a
foreign SBS trading venue covered by a Rule 833(a) exemption would not be registered as a
national securities exchange, the foreign SBS trading venue would not be permitted to effect
SBS transactions with or for a covered person that is not an ECP.
2. Exemptions relating to the trade execution requirement
Proposed Rule 833(b) would address requests for exemptive relief relating to the
application of the trade execution requirement under Section 3C(h) of the SEA to transactions
executed on a foreign SBS trading venue. Pursuant to Section 3C(h) of the SEA, an SBS that is
subject to the trade execution requirement must be executed on an exchange, on an SBSEF
registered under Section 3D of the SEA, or on an SBSEF that is exempt from registration under
Section 3D(e) of the SEA.
250 As a result, a covered person (as defined in proposed Rule 832)
would not be permitted to execute an SBS that is subject to the trade execution requirement on a
foreign SBS trading venue unless that venue has registered with the Commission as a national
securities exchange or an SBSEF, or has received an exemption under Section 3D(e) of the SEA.
A covered person seeking to execute such an SBS on a foreign SBS trading venue that
does not fall within one of these categories could request that the Commission grant an
exemption from this requirement under Section 36(a)(1) of the SEA by submitting an
application, as with Rule 833(a), pursuant to SEA Rule 0-12. Proposed Rule 833(b)(1) would

250 Section 3D(e) of the SEA gives the Commission authority to exempt an SBSEF from
registration if it is subject to comparable, comprehensive supervision and regulation by
the CFTC. See 15 U.S.C. 78c-4(e).
211
provide that such an application, relating to the application of the trade execution requirement to
SBS executed on a foreign SBS trading venue, may state that the application also is submitted
pursuant to proposed Rule 833(b).251 Proposed Rule 833(b) is intended to clarify how interested
parties could make requests for exemptive relief from the trade execution requirement for SBS
traded on one or more foreign SBS trading venues.252
To issue a Rule 833(b) exemption, like with any other Section 36 exemption, the
Commission would be required to find that the exemption is necessary or appropriate in the
public interest, and consistent with the protection of investors. Furthermore, as contemplated by
Section 36(a)(1), the Commission may subject a Rule 833(b) exemption to any conditions that it
deems appropriate.
Proposed Rule 833(b)(2) would provide that, in considering whether to issue a Rule
833(b) exemption, the Commission may consider: (i) the extent to which the SBS traded in the
foreign jurisdiction covered by the request are subject to a trade execution requirement
comparable to that in Section 3C(h) of the SEA and the Commission’s rules thereunder; (ii) the
extent to which trading venues in the foreign jurisdiction covered by the request are subject to
regulation and supervision comparable to that under the SEA, including Section 3D of the SEA,
and the Commission’s rules thereunder; (iii) whether the foreign trading venue or venues where
covered persons intend to trade SBS have received an exemption order contemplated by

251 For the remainder of this discussion, an exemption under SEA Section 36 and Rule
833(b) will be referred to simply as a “Rule 833(b) exemption.”
252 An SBS can be subject to the SEA’s trade execution requirement only if it first becomes
subject to the clearing requirement in Section 3C(h) of the SEA, 15 U.S.C. 78c-3(h). A
Rule 833(b) exemption would not have any impact on this clearing requirement, unless
otherwise explicitly addressed in the exemption order.
212
proposed Rule 833(a); and (iv) any other factor that the Commission believes is relevant for
assessing whether the exemption is in the public interest and consistent with the protection of
investors.
The first factor listed above is intended to highlight the Commission’s preliminary belief
that, to grant an exemption from the SEA’s trade execution requirement to allow SBS subject to
that requirement to trade in a foreign jurisdiction on one or more venues not registered with the
Commission, there should be a comparable trade execution requirement in that jurisdiction. As
part of any analysis regarding the comparability of the trade execution requirement, the
Commission could consider not only whether the relevant SBS must be executed on a trading
venue in the foreign jurisdiction, but also the permissible execution means for mandatory trade
execution in the foreign jurisdiction. In general, the Commission preliminarily believes that a
trade execution requirement in a foreign jurisdiction would not be comparable to the trade
execution requirement under the SEA if the foreign jurisdiction’s rules did not require SBS
products subject to that requirement to be executed through means comparable to Required
Transactions as described in proposed Rule 815 (e.g., if the foreign jurisdiction allowed the use
of single-dealer platforms to discharge any mandatory trading execution requirement in that
jurisdiction).
Under the second factor listed above, the Commission could consider whether the trading
venues in the foreign jurisdiction are subject to regulation and supervision comparable to that
under the SEA, including Section 3D of the SEA and the Commission’s rules thereunder. The
Commission preliminarily believes that the goals of Title VII regarding trade execution253 could

253 See supra notes 94-96 and accompanying text.
213
be subverted if it were to allow covered persons to trade SBS subject to the SEA’s trade
execution requirement on foreign trading venues that are not subject to rules designed to foster
comparable levels of pre- and post-trade transparency, access, and liquidity.
The Commission also believes that it would be important to consider whether the foreign
trading venue or venues where covered persons intend to trade SBS have received an exemption
order contemplated by proposed Rule 833(a). The fact that covered persons are executing SBS
on a foreign trading venue typically would require the venue to register with the Commission as
a national securities exchange or SBSEF.254
Finally, the fourth factor listed above would emphasize that these considerations are not
exhaustive. The Commission may consider any other factor that it believes is relevant for
assessing whether the Rule 833(b) exemption is in the public interest and consistent with the
protection of investors.
The Commission seeks comment on the following:
170. Do you believe in general that the Commission should establish a rule for
granting exemptions regarding a foreign SBS trading venue’s status under the SEA
and mandatory trade execution of cross-border SBS transactions? Why or why not?
171. Do you disagree with any of the specific language proposed in Rule 833? If so,
how would you revise it?

254 A request for an exemption under proposed Rule 833(a) could be submitted at the same
time—and by the same person(s)—as a request for an exemption under proposed Rule
833(b). For example, a financial regulatory authority in a foreign jurisdiction could
combine a request for an exemption under proposed Rule 833(a) on behalf of one or more
SBS trading venues licensed and regulated in that jurisdiction with a request for an
exemption under proposed Rule 833(b) that would allow covered persons to trade on
those venues SBS that would, absent an exemption, be subject to the SEA’s trade
execution requirement.
214
172. Do you expect that there are foreign SBS trading venues that would seek an
exemption under proposed Rule 833(a)? If so, how many?
173. Do you agree with the factors that the Commission is proposing to consider for a
Rule 833(b) exemption? Are there are any that you would eliminate or revise? If so,
which ones and why? Are there any criteria that you believe should be added? If so,
what and why?
174. Are there any conditions or limitations that should be included in the rule? If so,
what conditions or limitations would you suggest, and why?
X. Rule 834—Implementation of Section 765 of the Dodd-Frank Act and Governance
of SBSEFs and SBS exchanges
Section 765(a) of the Dodd-Frank Act255 provides in relevant part that, to mitigate
conflicts of interest, the Commission “shall adopt rules which may include numerical limits on
the control of, or the voting rights with respect to” any clearing agency that clears SBS, or on the
control of any SBSEF or SBS exchange by certain bank holding companies, certain nonbank
financial companies, an affiliate of such a bank holding company or nonbank financial company,
an SBS dealer, major SBS participant, or person associated with an SBS dealer or major SBS
participant. Section 765(b) states that the purpose of the statutory provision is “to improve the
governance of, or to mitigate systemic risk, promote competition, or mitigate conflicts of interest
in connection with” an SBS dealer or major SBS participant’s conduct of business with, a
clearing agency, SBSEF, or SBS exchange and in which such SBS dealer or major SBS
participant “has a material debt or equity investment.” Finally, Section 765(c) provides in
relevant part that, in adopting rules pursuant to Section 765, the Commission shall consider any
 255 15 U.S.C. § 8343.
215
conflicts of interest arising from the amount of equity owned by a single investor, the ability to
vote, cause the vote of, or withhold votes entitled to be cast on any matters by the holders of the
ownership interest.
In 2010, the Commission proposed Regulation MC to implement Section 765.256 In view
of the significant amount of time that has elapsed and the significant evolution in the swap and
SBS markets since the proposal of Regulation MC, the Commission hereby withdraws that
proposal. The Commission is now proposing Rule 834 of Regulation SE to implement Section
765 of the Dodd-Frank Act with respect to SBSEFs and SBS exchanges.
The Commission, in accordance with Section 765 of the Dodd-Frank Act, has reviewed
the potential for conflicts of interest arising from an SBS dealer or major SBS participant having
voting rights in an SBSEF or SBS exchange in which it is a member. The Commission
preliminarily believes that, to satisfy the requirements of Section 765, it is appropriate to impose
a cap on the size of the voting rights that an individual member of an SBSEF or SBS exchange
may own or direct. Accordingly, paragraph (b) of proposed Rule 834 would bar an SBSEF or
SBS exchange from permitting any of its members, either alone or together with any officer,
principal, or employee of the member, to:
(1) Own, directly or indirectly, 20% or more of any class of voting securities or of other
voting interest in the SBSEF or SBS exchange; or
(2) Directly or indirectly vote, cause the voting of, or give any consent or proxy with
respect to the voting of, any interest that exceeds 20% of the voting power of any class of

256 See Ownership Limitations and Governance Requirements for Security-Based Swap
Clearing Agencies, Security-Based Swap Execution Facilities, and National Securities
Exchanges With Respect to Security-Based Swaps Under Regulation MC, SEA Release
No. 34-63107 (October 14, 2010); 75 FR 65882 (October 26, 2010).
216
securities or of other ownership interest in the SBSEF or SBS exchange.
The 20% cap in proposed Rule 834(b) attempts to balance competing policy interests.
On the one hand, execution venues need capital, expertise, and liquidity to establish and grow.
Historically, market participants who become members of an execution venue are a source of all
three components, and any person contributing capital to a new venture might reasonably expect
to have a voting interest commensurate with the amount of capital contributed. The Commission
considered proposing a cap in voting interest below 20%, but preliminarily believes that too low
of a cap, even if imposed in the name of eliminating conflicts of interest, could have the
unintended effect of retarding the development of execution venues for SBS altogether, if market
participants who become members have no (or substantially limited) ability to vote their equity
interest.
On the other hand, allowing a member of an SBSEF or SBS exchange too large of a
voting interest could undermine the public policy benefits of having transparent, fair, and
regulated markets for the trading of SBS. A member of an SBSEF or SBS exchange with a
sufficiently large voting interest could exercise undue influence over the rules and policies
applicable to members, the venue’s access criteria, decisions regarding access, and disciplinary
matters, among other things. In particular, members who are SBS dealers and conduct a
significant amount of business in the bilateral OTC market have incentives to restrict the scope
of SBS that an SBSEF or SBS exchange makes eligible for trading. Trading in a market with
robust order competition and pre-trade transparency reduces search costs for end users and
liquidity seekers, and reduces the information and bargaining asymmetry of end users and
liquidity seekers relative to SBS dealers. An SBS dealer with a large voting interest in an
SBSEF or SBS exchange, if it perceived that trading on the regulated venue was diminishing the
217
rents obtained from its bilateral OTC business, might seek to utilize its voting influence in a
number of ways to degrade the capability of the regulated venue, thus making the OTC market
by comparison a more attractive option.
The Commission preliminarily believes that capping a member’s voting interest at 20%
strikes a reasonable balance between these competing interests. It would allow a single member
to make an investment in an SBSEF or SBS exchange significant enough to give it a 20% voting
interest, while reserving at least 80% to unrelated parties. The Commission preliminarily
believes that the 20% cap would still afford an SBS dealer or major SBS participant that has
made an investment in an SBSEF or SBS exchange a reasonable commercial means of
monitoring and protecting that investment. But requiring 80% of the voting power to reside with
unrelated parties would reduce the likelihood that the large member could tilt the playing field in
its favor. In proposing this 20% threshold in Rule 834, the Commission is informed by long
experience with handling questions of member influence over national securities exchanges
raised in applications to register with the Commission on Form 1 and in governance rule filings
made on SEA Form 19b-4.257
 257 See SEA Release No. 49718 (May 17, 2004), 69 FR 29611, 29624 (May 24, 2004)
(approving PCX limitation of trading permit holder ownership to 20% and stating that “a
member who trades securities through the facilities of an exchange can have an
ownership interest in the exchange. However, a member’s interest could become so large
as to cast doubt on whether the exchange can fairly and objectively exercise its selfregulatory responsibilities with respect to that member. A member that also directly or
indirectly controls an exchange might be tempted to exercise that controlling influence by
directing the exchange to refrain from diligently surveilling the member’s conduct or
from punishing any conduct that violates the rules of the exchange or the federal
securities laws. An exchange also might be reluctant to surveil and enforce its rules
zealously against a member that the exchange relies on as its largest source of capital”).
See also, e.g., SEA Release No. 85828 (May 10, 2019), 84 FR 21841 (May 15, 2019)
218
Proposed Rule 834(b) would cover both direct and indirect voting interests. The 20% cap
could be circumvented if, for example, a member placed its voting interest in an SBSEF or SBS
exchange of 20% or more in a shell company or other affiliate and directed how the shell
company or affiliate casts those votes. Accordingly, proposed Rule 834(b) would look through
the non-member entities holding interests in SBSEFs and SBS exchanges to consider whether
any member could indirectly control 20% or more of the voting interest through the non-member
entity having the direct interest. Furthermore, proposed Rule 834(b) would look through the
corporate structure of the SBSEF or SBS exchange to consider whether any member could
indirectly have 20% or more of the voting interest in the underlying trading venue. For example,
an SBSEF or SBS exchange could be wholly owned by a holding company. In such a case, the
voting restriction in proposed Rule 834(b) would apply to the voting interest in the parent
holding company held by a member of the child SBSEF or SBS exchange, since a direct voting
interest of 20% or more in the parent would equate to an indirect voting interest of 20% or more
in child trading venue.
Similar to its approach to indirect voting interest, proposed Rule 834(b) would aggregate
the voting interest of the member itself with the voting interest held by any officer, principal, or
employee of the member for purposes of determining compliance with the 20% cap. Without
this provision, the member—or an officer, principal, or employee of the member—could split the

(approving Long Term Stock Exchange’s registration as a national securities exchange
with a 20% limit on LTSE ownership by members); SEA Release No. 62716 (August 13,
2010), 75 FR 51295 (August 19, 2010) (approving BATS-Y Exchange’s registration as a
national securities exchange with a 20% limit on exchange ownership by members); SEA
Release No. 49067 (January 13, 2004), 69 FR 2761 (January 20, 2004) (approving a
voting collar on members that hold interests in BOX in excess of 20%); SEA Release No.
54399 (September 1, 2006), 71 FR 53728 (September 12, 2006) (approving ISE’s
limitation of a member’s ownership interest to 20%).
219
voting interest held in the SBSEF or SBS exchange across multiple persons who would likely be
voting that interest in concert.
Paragraph (c) of proposed Rule 834 would include requirements designed to reinforce the
20% cap in paragraph (b). Paragraph (c) would require the rules of each SBSEF and SBS
exchange to be reasonably designed, and have an effective mechanism, to:
(1) Deny effect to the portion of any voting interest held by a member in excess of the
20% limitation;
(2) Compel a member who possesses a voting interest in excess of the 20% limitation to
divest enough of that voting interest to come within that limit; and
(3) Obtain information relating to its ownership and voting interests owned or controlled,
directly or indirectly, by its members.
Under paragraph (c)(1) of proposed Rule 834, if a member of an SBSEF or SBS
exchange managed to evade the 20% voting restriction (e.g., by disguising its voting interest
through one or more shell companies), the SBSEF or SBS exchange would be required to deny
the effect of any part of the vote in excess of the 20% restriction when the evasion is discovered.
This could, in close cases, cause the SBSEF or SBS exchange to have to reverse the outcome of a
vote because of the invalidation of the part of the vote in excess of the 20% threshold. In
addition, the Commission preliminarily believes—as reflected in paragraph (c)(2) of proposed
Rule 834—that an SBSEF or SBS exchange should, if it discovers that a member has managed to
evade the 20% voting restriction, compel the member to divest enough of that voting interest to
come within the 20% limit. Finally, the Commission preliminarily believes—as reflected in
paragraph (c)(3) of proposed Rule 834—that an SBSEF or SBS exchange must have an effective
means of obtaining information about the ownership and voting interests owned or controlled,
220
directly or indirectly, by its members. Proposed Rule 834(c)(3) is designed to promote
compliance with proposed Rule 834(b) by requiring an SBSEF or SBS exchange to actively
obtain information about the ownership and voting interests owned or controlled, directly or
indirectly, by its members. The Commission preliminarily believes that ignorance of a member
holding a voting interest in excess of the proposed 20% limitation should not excuse a violation
of Rule 834(b). Furthermore, the information obtained by an SBSEF or SBS exchange under
proposed Rule 834(c)(3) should assist with any remedial actions necessary under proposed Rules
834(c)(1) and (c)(2).
Paragraph (d) of proposed Rule 834 is designed to mitigate conflicts of interest in the
disciplinary process of an SBSEF or SBS exchange and would provide as follows: “Each
security-based swap execution facility and SBS exchange shall ensure that its disciplinary
processes preclude any member, or group or class of its members, from dominating or exercising
disproportionate influence on the disciplinary process. Each major disciplinary committee or
hearing panel thereof shall include sufficient different groups or classes of its members so as to
ensure fairness and to prevent special treatment or preference for any person or member in the
conduct of the responsibilities of the committee or panel.” Proposed Rule 834(d) recognizes that
one way that a conflict of interest could manifest itself is in the disciplinary process. Therefore,
the Commission is proposing, as the first sentence of proposed Rule 834(d), that each SBSEF
and SBS exchange should “preclude any member, or group or class of its members, from
dominating or exercising disproportionate influence on the disciplinary process.”
The second sentence of proposed Rule 834(d) is adapted from § 1.64 of the CFTC’s
rules, which addresses the composition of various SRO governing boards and major disciplinary
221
committees.258 § 1.64(c)(4) requires an SRO (which term, under the CEA, includes a SEF) to
maintain in effect rules that “each major disciplinary committee or hearing panel [of the SRO]
include sufficient different membership interests so as to ensure fairness and to prevent special
treatment or preference for any person in the conduct of a committee’s or the panel’s
responsibilities.” Proposed Rule 834(d) reflects the Commission’s preliminary belief that an
SBSEF or SBS exchange should be mindful of its different membership interests, and how they
are represented on disciplinary committees and hearing panels in particular matters, to avoid
potential conflicts of interest.
To further implement Section 765 and promote good governance generally for SBSEFs
and SBS exchanges, the Commission is proposing additional requirements in Rule 834 that are
closely modelled on §§ 1.64 and 1.69 of the CFTC’s rules.
§ 1.64(b) requires an SRO to maintain in effect standards and procedures that ensure that
20% or more of the regular voting members of the SRO’s governing board are persons who are
knowledgeable of futures trading or financial regulation or are otherwise capable of contributing
to governing board deliberations. § 1.64(b) also requires an SRO to maintain in effect standards
and procedures that ensure that 20% or more of the regular voting members of the governing
board are not: members of the SRO; currently salaried employees of the SRO; primarily
performing services for the SRO in a capacity other than as a member of the SRO’s governing
board; or officers, principals, or employees of a firm which holds a membership at the SRO

258 Proposed Rule 834(a)(2) would define “major disciplinary committee” as a committee of
persons who are authorized by an SBSEF to conduct disciplinary hearings, to settle
disciplinary charges, to impose disciplinary sanctions, or to hear appeals thereof in cases
involving any violation of the rules of the SBSEF except those which are related to
decorum or attire, financial requirements, or reporting or recordkeeping and do not
involved fraud, deceit, or conversion.
222
either in its own name or through an employee on behalf of the firm.
Paragraph (e) of proposed Rule 834 is closely modelled on § 1.64(b). Paragraph (e)(1)(i)
would require each SBSEF and SBS exchange to ensure that 20% or more of the persons who
are eligible to vote routinely on matters being considered by the governing board (excluding
those members who are eligible to vote only in the case of a tie vote by the governing board)
are persons who are knowledgeable of SBS trading or financial regulation, or otherwise capable
of contributing to governing board deliberations. Paragraphs (e)(1)(ii) through (v) of proposed
Rule 834 are based on four of the prongs in § 1.64(b)(1)(ii) which provide that 20% or more of
the persons who are eligible to vote routinely on matters being considered by the governing
board (excluding those members who are eligible to vote only in the case of a tie vote by the
governing board) must not be: members of the SBSEF or SBS exchange;259 salaried employees
of the SBSEF or SBS exchange; primarily performing services for the SBSEF or SBS exchange
in a capacity other than as a member of the governing board; or officers, principals, or employees
of a firm which holds a membership at the SBSEF or SBS exchange, either in its own name or
through an employee on behalf of the firm.
Paragraph (e)(2) of proposed Rule 834, modelled on § 1.64(b)(3), would require each
SBSEF and SBS exchange to ensure that membership of its governing board includes a diversity
of groups or classes of its members.260

259 Proposed Rule 834(e)(1)(ii), read together with proposed Rule 834(b), would have the
effect of allowing four members of an SBSEF or SBS exchange to control up to 80% of
the voting interest (assuming that each of the four holds 20%). Under proposed Rule
834(e)(1)(ii), at least 20% of the voting interest would have to be held by non-members.
260 § 1.64(b)(3) provides in relevant part that the governing board of an SRO must include “a
diversity of membership interests.” § 1.64(a)(4) provides a definition of “membership
223
The Commission is not adapting the detailed provisions of § 1.64(c) into proposed Rule
834. However, the key principle of § 1.64(c)—that each major disciplinary committee or
hearing panel should include sufficient different membership interests so as to ensure fairness
and to prevent special treatment or preference in the conduct of the committee’s or panel's
responsibilities, which is located in paragraph § 1.64(c)—is being adapted into proposed Rule
834(d), as discussed above.
Paragraph (f) of proposed Rule 834 is based closely on § 1.64(d) and would require each
SBSEF and SBS exchange to submit to the Commission, within 30 days after each governing
board election, a list of the governing board’s members, the groups or classes of members that
they represent, and how the composition of the governing board otherwise meets the
requirements of Rule 834. This provision would provide the Commission information to help it
assess an SBSEF’s compliance with Rule 834.
Paragraph (g) of proposed Rule 834 is modelled on § 1.69, which requires an SRO to
further address the avoidance of conflicts of interest in the execution of its self-regulatory
functions. § 1.69(b)(1)(i) requires an SRO to maintain in effect rules that require a member of its
governing board, disciplinary committee, or oversight panel to abstain from such body’s

interest” that lists six classes of members, each of which is considered a different
membership interest. Many of these specifically enumerated classes—e.g., “floor
traders,” “floor brokers,” “futures commission merchants,” “producers, consumers,
processors, distributors, and merchandisers of commodities traded on the particular
contract market”—might not be relevant to SBSEFs and SBS exchanges. Rather than
crafting its own definition of “membership interest,” the Commission is opting for a
principles-based approach to incorporating § 1.64(b)(3) into Rule 834, by proposing that
an SBSEF or SBS exchange must be able to demonstrate that the board membership
fairly represents the diversity of interests at such SBSEF or SBS exchange. See proposed
Rule 834(e)(2).
224
deliberations and voting on any matter involving a named party in interest, where such member:
is a named party in interest; is an employer, employee, or fellow employee of a named party in
interest; is associated with a named party in interest through a “broker association”; has any
other significant, ongoing business relationship with a named party in interest; or has a family
relationship261 with a named party in interest.
§ 1.69(b)(1)(ii) requires an SRO to maintain in effect rules that require each member of
its governing board, disciplinary committee, or oversight panel to disclose to the appropriate
SRO staff, before consideration of any matter involving a named party in interest, whether the
member has one of the relationships listed in § 1.69(b)(1)(i) with a named party in interest.
§ 1.69(b)(1)(iii) requires the SRO to establish procedures for determining whether a member of
its governing board, disciplinary committees, or oversight committees is subject to a conflicts
restriction in any matter involving a named party in interest.262
§ 1.69(b)(2)(i) requires a member of the SRO’s governing board, disciplinary committee,
or oversight committee to abstain from such body’s deliberations and voting on any significant
action, if the member knowingly has a direct and substantial financial interest in the result of the
vote based upon either exchange or non-exchange positions that could reasonably be expected to
be affected by the action. § 1.69(b)(2)(ii) requires a member of the SRO’s governing board,
 261 See proposed Rule 834(a)(1) (defining “family relationship” of a person to be person’s
spouse, former spouse, parent, step-parent, child, step-child, sibling, step-brother, stepsister, grandparent, grandchild, uncle, aunt, nephew, niece, or in-law). The
Commission’s proposed definition is adapted from the CFTC’s definition of “family
relationship” in § 1.69(a)(2).
262 Proposed Rule 834(a)(4) would define “named party in interest” as a person or entity that
is identified by name as a subject of any matter being considered by a governing board,
disciplinary committee, or oversight panel.
225
disciplinary committee, or oversight committee, before consideration of any significant action, to
disclose to the appropriate SRO staff that position information, although this requirement does
not apply to members who choose to abstain from deliberations and voting on the subject
significant action. § 1.69(b)(2)(iii) requires an SRO to establish procedures for determining
whether any member of its governing board, disciplinary committees, or oversight committees is
subject to a conflicts restriction under § 1.69 in any significant action. Such determination is
required to include a review of various types of positions enumerated in the rule, including:
“Any other types of positions, whether maintained at that self-regulatory organization or
elsewhere, held in the member’s personal accounts or the proprietary accounts of the member’s
affiliated firm that the self-regulatory organization reasonably expects could be affected by the
significant action.” § 1.69(b)(2)(iv) sets out the sources that the SRO should review in
determining a member’s positions, including a catch-all provision in paragraph (b)(2)(iv)(C) for
“[a]ny other source of information that is held by and reasonably available to the self-regulatory
organization.”
§ 1.69(b)(3)(i) provides that an SRO governing board, disciplinary committee, or
oversight panel may permit a member to participate in deliberations prior to a vote on a
significant action for which that member otherwise would be required to abstain, if such
participation would be consistent with the public interest and the member recuses from voting on
such action. § 1.69(b)(3)(ii) requires the deliberating body, when determining whether to permit
the exception contemplated in paragraph (b)(3)(i), to consider whether the member’s
participation in deliberations is necessary for the deliberating body to achieve a quorum in the
matter; and whether the member has unique or special expertise, knowledge, or experience in the
matter under consideration. § 1.69(b)(3)(iii) requires the deliberating body also to consider,
226
when determining whether to permit an exception to “fully consider the position information
which is the basis for the member’s direct and substantial financial interest in the result of a vote
on a significant action.”
§ 1.69(b)(4) requires an SRO’s governing board, disciplinary committees, and oversight
panels to reflect in their minutes or otherwise document that the conflicts determination
procedures required under § 1.69 have been followed. Such records also must include: the
names of all members who attended the meeting in person or who otherwise were present by
electronic means; the name of any member who voluntarily recused himself or herself or was
required to abstain from deliberations and/or voting on a matter and the reason for the recusal or
abstention, if stated; and information on the position information that was reviewed for each
member.
Proposed Rule 834(g) closely follows the paragraph structure and language of § 1.69,
with a few minor exceptions (beyond modifying the rule’s application to SBSEFs and SBS
exchanges, rather than, in the CFTC original, all SROs). First, paragraph (g)(1)(i)(A) of
proposed Rule 834 is based closely on § 1.69(b)(1)(i) and would set out the types of relationships
with the named party of interest that would create a conflict of interest for a member of the
governing board, disciplinary committee, or oversight panel. Paragraph (g)(1)(i)(A), however,
would incorporate only four of the five prongs in § 1.69(b)(1)(i).
263 Second, § 1.69(b)(2)(iii) sets
out five types of financial positions that could be held by a member of the governing board,
disciplinary committee, or oversight panel that an SRO must review to ascertain if there is a
 263 The Commission is not proposing to include a prong about being associated with a named
party of interest through a “broker association,” as defined in § 156.1 of the CFTC’s
rules, as that concept does not exist under the SEA.
227
conflicts restriction in a significant action. Proposed Rule 834(g)(1)(ii)(C) is a simplified version
of § 1.69(b)(2)(iii); it would not include the five prongs set forth in § 1.69(b)(2)(iii), but rather
would incorporate only the final, catch-all prong (“Such determination must include a review of
any positions, whether maintained at that security-based swap execution facility, SBS exchange,
or elsewhere, held in the member’s personal accounts or the proprietary accounts of the
member’s affiliated firm264 that the security-based swap execution facility or SBS exchange
reasonably expects could be affected by the significant action”).265 Third, proposed Rule
834(g)(1)(ii)(C) would omit a requirement in § 1.69(b)(2)(iv) that an SRO, when making a
determination of whether a conflict of interest exists, must take into consideration “[t]he most
recent large trader reports and clearing records available to the self-regulatory organization.”
These types of reports may not be as prevalent in the securities and SBS markets as the swaps
markets. The Commission believes that the final, catch-all prong in § 1.69(b)(2)(iv)—“Any
other source of information that is held by and reasonably available to the self-regulatory
organization”—would suffice, and is proposing it as Rule 834(g)(1)(ii)(C)(2).
Proposed Rule 834(h) would require each SBSEF and SBS exchange to maintain in effect
various rules that would be required under proposed Rule 834. An SBSEF would be required to
file such rules under proposed Rule 806 or 807 of Regulation SE; an SBS exchange would be
required to file such rules under existing SEA Rule 19b-4.266 Proposed Rule 834(h) is loosely
 264 Proposed Rule 834(a)(3) would define a “member’s affiliated firm” as a firm in which the
member is a principal or an employee.
265 Proposed Rule 834(a)(5) would define “significant action” to include several types of
actions or rule changes by an SBSEF or SBS exchange that could be implemented
without the Commission’s prior approval related to addressing an emergency and certain
changes in margin levels.
266 17 CFR 240.19b-4.
228
modelled on various provisions in §§ 1.64 and 1.69 providing that the SRO rules required under
those CFTC rules must be filed with the CFTC pursuant to relevant provisions of the CEA and
the CFTC’s rules thereunder.
The Commission preliminarily believes that §§ 1.64 and 1.69 are reasonably designed to
promote good governance of trading venues and is therefore proposing to adapt them into Rule
834. These CFTC rules identify various instances of potential conflicts of interest that might
involve a member of the governing board or an important committee of a SEF, and require
proactive measures to address those conflicts. The Commission preliminarily believes that
SBSEFs and SBS exchanges should have the same types of rules because the same types of
conflicts that arise with SEFs could arise with SBS trading venues. Furthermore, various
provisions of §§ 1.64 and 1.69 would further the policy goals of Section 765 of the Dodd-Frank
Act. For example, proposed Rule 834(e)(1)(ii), modelled on § 1.64(b)(1)(ii)(A), would require
that at least 20% of the regular voting members of the governing board of an SBSEF or SBS
exchange not be members, and proposed Rule 834(e)(1)(v), which is modelled on
§ 1.64(b)(1)(ii)(D), would require that at least 20% of the regular voting members of the
governing board not be persons affiliated with members. These requirements, by reserving at
least 20% of the governing board’s seats for persons not associated with any member of an
SBSEF or SBS exchange, would reduce the possibility that a combination of members who are
SBS dealers or major SBS participants could create a conflict of interest for the SBSEF or SBS
exchange.
In addition, proposed Rule 834(d), which incorporates language from § 1.64(c), would
require each major disciplinary committee or hearing panel thereof to include sufficient different
groups or classes of its members so as to ensure fairness and to prevent special treatment or
229
preference for any person or member. The Commission preliminarily believes that it is
appropriate to impose such a requirement on SBSEFs and SBS exchanges to further lessen the
potential for members of an SBSEF or SBS exchange who are SBS dealers or major SBS
participants from benefitting from a conflict of interest. Furthermore, proposed Rule 834(e),
which is modelled on § 1.64(d), would require an SBSEF or SBS exchange to submit to
the Commission, within 30 days after each governing board election, a list of the governing
board’s members, the groups or classes of members that they represent, and how the composition
of the governing board otherwise meets the requirements of Rule 834. Proposed Rule 834(e) is
designed to reinforce the other requirements of the rule by causing each SBSEF and SBS
exchange to actively consider how the composition of its governing board comports with Rule
834, and to make an accurate representation to the Commission regarding such compliance.
The Commission preliminarily believes that § 1.69 also includes provisions that would
further the policy goals of Section 765 and is, therefore, proposing to adapt them into Rule 834.
Under proposed Rule 834(b), an SBSEF or SBS exchange generally may not permit any member
to hold 20% or more of the voting interest in that trading venue. Nothing in proposed Rule 834,
however, would prohibit a member—including an SBS dealer or major SBS participant (or a
person associated with such a member, such as a firm principal)—from serving on a governing
board, disciplinary committee, or oversight panel of an SBSEF or SBS exchange. § 1.69 is
designed to address various types of conflicts of interest that might involve members of a
governing board, disciplinary committee, or oversight panel. For example, § 1.69 specifies when
a member must abstain from the body’s deliberations and voting because the member has a
relationship to the named party in interest or because the member has “a direct and substantial
financial interest in the result of the vote.” Furthermore, § 1.69 requires a member to disclose its
230
relationships to a named party in interest and provide position information to the SRO so that the
SRO can assess whether the member has a conflict, and also requires the SRO to follow its own
procedures for determining whether a conflict exists. Because these provisions further the goals
of Section 765—to mitigate conflicts of interest created by an SBS dealer or major SBS
participant that holds an interest in an SBSEF or SBS exchange—and because they are
reasonably designed to promote good governance more generally, the Commission is proposing
to incorporate them into Rule 834.
The Commission recognizes that promulgating rules under Section 765 alone will not
result in a highly competitive market for SBS. There could be other ways for anticompetitive
forces to impede the growth of SBS trading on transparent, regulated platforms other than by
misuse of a large voting interest in the trading venue. For example, a large SBS dealer or
coalition of SBS dealers, even absent any voting interest in any SBSEF or SBS exchange, could
threaten to move their business elsewhere unless given an unfair advantage by the trading venue.
A large SBS dealer or coalition of SBS dealers also could conspire to shut out end users who
sought to trade more actively on these transparent, regulated venues rather than continuing to
trade in the bilateral OTC markets. The Commission will be alert to any such anticompetitive
practices and consider appropriate prophylactic measures. At present, the Commission believes
that adopting rules under Section 765 is a necessary and appropriate first step to guard against
conflicts of interest arising on SBSEFs and SBS exchanges.
The Commission seeks comment on the following:
175. In general, do you agree with how the Commission is proposing to implement
Section 765 of the Dodd-Frank Act? Why or why not?
176. In particular, do you believe that the 20% ownership cap in proposed Rule 834(a)
231
is appropriate? Why or why not? Do you believe that a different numerical threshold
would be appropriate? If so, what numerical threshold and why?
177. Do you believe that there are other means (such as ownership of non-voting
equity, holding a sizeable amount of the debt issuance, etc.) by which an SBS dealer
or major SBS participant could exercise an undue influence over an SBSEF or SBS
exchange of which it is a member? If so, please discuss whether and how these other
means should be incorporated into Rule 834.
178. Do you believe that proposed Rule 834(b) is sufficiently clear about when a
member would be deemed to have an indirect 20% voting interest in an SBSEF or
SBS exchange? If not, please provide other scenarios where you believe the
Commission should offer clarification.
179. Do you agree in general with the Commission’s proposal to adapt the major
provisions of § 1.64 into Rule 834? Why or why not?
180. Are there provisions of § 1.64 that the Commission has incorporated into
proposed Rule 834 that you think inappropriate? If so, what provisions and why?
181. Conversely, are there provisions of § 1.64 that the Commission has not
incorporated into proposed Rule 834 that you think should be incorporated? If so,
what provisions and why? Specifically, do you believe that the Commission should
incorporate a definition of “membership interest”—as the CFTC does in
§ 1.64(a)(4)—to more precisely delineate the different interests that an SBSEF or
SBS exchange should take into account?
182. Do you agree in general with the Commission’s proposal to incorporate the major
provisions of § 1.69 into Rule 834? Why or why not?
232
183. Are there provisions of § 1.69 that the Commission has incorporated into
proposed Rule 834 that you think inappropriate? If so, what provisions and why?
184. Do you believe generally that the same rules for mitigating conflicts of interest
should apply to both SBSEFs and SBS exchanges, or should different restrictions
apply to each type of trading venue? If you believe different restrictions should
apply, please explain why and what different restrictions you believe should be
incorporated into Rule 834?
185. Are there any proposed requirements in Rule 834 that existing national securities
exchanges, which could in the future elect to list SBS and thereby become SBS
exchanges, would find difficult to comply with? Would any of the requirements
proposed in Rule 834 conflict with their existing rules? If so, please describe.
186. Are there other types of conflict of interest that SBS dealers and major SBS
participants might enjoy as members of an SBSEF or SBS exchange? If so, discuss
how any such conflict could be addressed via Commission rulemaking.
187. Do you believe that SBS dealers and major SBS participants can exercise
anticompetitive influence over one or more SBSEFs or SBS exchanges even if not
members of those trading venues? If so, what additional measures would you
recommend to combat that anticompetitive influence?
XI. Rule 835—Notice to Commission by SBSEF of final disciplinary action, denial or
conditioning of membership, or denial or limitation of access
The Commission is also proposing new Rule 835 to require an SBSEF to provide the
Commission notice of a final disciplinary action, a final action with respect to a denial or
conditioning of membership, or a final action with respect to a denial or limitation of access.
233
Such notice is designed to ensure that the Commission is kept aware of significant disciplinary
actions, denials or conditionings of membership, or denials or limitations on access by SBSEFs
that could be the subject of an aggrieved person’s request for review by the Commission. The
requirement to provide notice to the Commission also would obligate an SBSEF to be cognizant
of, and make records for, each such instance, and such records would become a necessary part of
the record should the aggrieved person seek Commission review of the SBSEF’s action.
Specifically, paragraph (a) of proposed Rule 835 would provide that, if an SBSEF issues
a final disciplinary action against a member, or takes a final action with respect to a denial or
conditioning of membership, or a final action with respect to a denial or limitation of access of a
person to any services offered by the SBSEF, the SBSEF shall file a notice of such action with
the Commission within 30 days and serve a copy on the affected person. Proposed Rule 835(a)
uses the phrase “final disciplinary action against a member” (emphasis added) because an
SBSEF may utilize its disciplinary authority under Core Principle 2 (Compliance with Rules) in
Section 3D of the SEA267 only with respect to its members; but uses the phrase “denies or limits
access of a person” (emphasis added) because the person whose access is denied or limited
might not be a member. For example, a person that is denied membership by an SBSEF would
fall under this category.
Paragraph (b)(1) of proposed Rule 835 would provide that, for purposes of paragraph (a),
a disciplinary action would not be considered final unless: (1) the affected person has sought an
adjudication or hearing with respect to the matter, or otherwise exhausted their administrative
 267 15 U.S.C. 78c-4(d)(2).
234
remedies at the SBSEF; and (2) the disciplinary action is not a summary action permitted under
proposed Rule 819(g)(13)(ii).
268 In addition, paragraph (b)(2) of proposed Rule 835 would
provide that, for purposes of paragraph (a), a disposition of a matter with respect to a denial or
conditioning of membership, or a denial or limitation of access, would not be considered final
unless such person has sought an adjudication or hearing, or otherwise exhausted their
administrative remedies at the SBSEF with respect to such matter. The Commission
preliminarily believes that it is appropriate to exclude disciplinary actions that are summary
actions under an SBSEF’s summary fine schedule269 because the Commission expects such
summary actions, if applicable, to comprise lesser disciplinary actions that do not warrant appeal.
The CFTC has parallel procedures relating to review of SEF disciplinary actions also excludes
summary actions under an SEF’s summary fine schedule.270
Paragraph (c) of proposed Rule 835 would provide that the notice required under Rule
835(a) must include the name of the member or the associated person and last known address, as
reflected in the SBSEF’s records, of the member or associated person, as well as the name of the
person, committee, or other organizational unit of the SBSEF that initiated the disciplinary action
 268 As discussed above, see supra Section VIII(B)(1), proposed Rule 819(g)(13)(ii) would
permit an SBSEF to adopt a summary fine schedule for violations of rules relating to the
failure to timely submit accurate records required for clearing or verifying each day’s
transactions, which may be summarily imposed against persons within the SBSEF’s
jurisdiction for violating such rules. Furthermore, an SBSEF’s summary fine schedule
could allow for warning letters to be issued for first-time violations or violators. If
adopted, a summary fine schedule would be required by proposed Rule 819(g)(13)(ii) to
provide for progressively larger fines for recurring violations.
269 A summary fine schedule, if an SBSEF elects to adopt one, would have to be part of the
SBSEF’s rules, and thus would need to be submitted to the Commission. See proposed
Rule 819(g)(13)(ii).
270 See 17 CFR 9.1(b)(2).
235
or access restriction. In the case of a final disciplinary action, the notice would be required to
include a description of the acts or practices, or omissions to act, upon which the sanction is
based, including, as appropriate, the specific rules that the SBSEF has found to have been
violated; a statement describing the respondent’s answer to the charges; and a statement of the
sanction imposed and the reasons for such sanction. In the case of a denial or conditioning of
membership or a denial or limitation of access, the notice would be required to include: the
financial or operating difficulty of the prospective member or member (as the case may be) upon
which the SBSEF determined that the prospective member or member could not be permitted to
do, or continue to do, business with safety to investors, creditors, other members, or the SBSEF;
the pertinent failure to meet qualification requirements or other prerequisites for membership or
access and the basis upon which the SBSEF determined that the person concerned could not be
permitted to have membership or access with safety to investors, creditors, other members, or the
SBSEF; or the default of any delivery of funds or securities to a clearing agency by the member.
Finally, the notice must include the effective date of such final disciplinary action, denials or
conditioning of membership, or denial or limitation of access, as well as any other information
that the SBSEF may deem relevant.
The Commission seeks comment on the following:
188. Do you agree with the proposed definition of “final disciplinary action” in
proposed Rule 835? Why or why not? If not, how would you revise the definition?
Do you think it would be appropriate to exclude disciplinary actions that are summary
actions under an SBSEF’s summary fine schedule from such definition? Why or why
not?
189. Do you agree with how the proposed rules and rule amendments address when an
236
aggrieved party may seek Commission review of a denial or conditioning of
membership, or a denial or limitation of access? Why or why not? If not, how would
you revise those provisions?
190. In particular, do the proposed rules contain sufficient detail to address all types of
denials or conditionings of membership or denials or limitations on access? Are there
particular scenarios that commenters believe the Commission should address in Rule
835? If so, please describe in detail.
191. Are the contents of the required notice to the Commission in proposed Rule 835
appropriate? Do you believe these would provide the Commission with enough detail
regarding final disciplinary actions, denials or conditionings of membership, and
denials or limitations on access? If not, what other information should be required in
the notice?
XII. Amendments to existing Rule 3a1-1 under the SEA—Exemptions from the
definition of “exchange”
An entity that meets the definition of “security-based swap execution facility” also would
likely meet the definition of “exchange” set forth in Section 3(a)(1) of the SEA271 and the
interpretation of that definition set forth in Rule 3b-16 thereunder.
272 Thus, absent an exemption,
an entity needing to register with the Commission as an SBSEF also would likely need to register
 271 15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(1).
272 17 CFR 240.3b-16 (providing that an entity generally is considered to meet the definition
of “exchange” if it brings together the orders for securities of multiple buyers and sellers
and uses established, non-discretionary methods—whether by providing a trading facility
or by setting rules—under which such orders interact with each other, and the buyers and
sellers entering such orders agree to the terms of a trade).
237
with the Commission as a national securities exchange.273 The Commission previously has
stated that it “believes that Congress specifically provided a comprehensive regulatory
framework for SBSEFs in the [SEA], as amended by the Dodd Frank Act, and therefore that such
entities that are registered as SBSEFs should not also be required to register and be regulated as
national securities exchanges.”274
Therefore, the Commission is proposing to exercise its authority under Section 36(a)(1)
of the SEA275 to exempt an SBSEF from the definition of “exchange”—and thus the obligation to
register as a national securities exchange— if it provides a market place solely for the trading of
SBS (and no other securities) and has registered with the Commission as an SBSEF.
 To effect
this exemption, the Commission is proposing to amend Rule 3a1-1 under the SEA276 by adding
new paragraph (a)(4).
277
The proposed amendment provides that an entity that has registered with the Commission
as an SBSEF pursuant to proposed Rule 803 and provides a market place for no securities other
than SBS would not fall within the definition of “exchange,” and thus would not be subject to the
requirement in Section 5 of the SEA to register as a national securities exchange or obtain a low-
 273 See Section 3D(a)(1) of the SEA, 15 U.S.C. 78c-4(a)(1) (“No person may operate a
facility for the trading or processing of security-based swaps, unless the facility is
registered as a security-based swap execution facility or as a national securities exchange
under this section”).
274 2011 SBSEF Proposal, 76 FR at 10958.
275 15 U.S.C. 78mm(a)(1).
276 17 CFR 240.3a1-1.
277 The amended rule would provide that an organization, association, or group of persons
shall be exempt from the definition of the term “exchange” if such organization,
association, or group of persons has registered with the Commission as an SBSEF
pursuant to Rule 803 and provides a market place for no securities other than SBS.
238
volume exemption. Section 5 also provides that a broker or dealer may not “us[e] any facility of
an exchange within or subject to the jurisdiction of the United States to effect any transaction in
a security, or to report any such transaction, unless such exchange (1) is registered as a national
securities exchange . . . or (2) is exempted from such registration . . . by reason of the limited
volume of transactions effected on such exchange.” Brokers and dealers who are members of a
registered SBSEF would not be in violation of Section 5 by effecting or reporting any SBS
transactions on that SBSEF, because an SBSEF that qualifies for the exemption under proposed
Rule 3a1-1(a)(4) would not be an exchange within the meaning of Section 5.
In addition, the Commission is proposing a new paragraph (a)(5) to existing Rule 3a1-1
under the SEA which would provide that an organization, association, or group of persons shall
be exempt from the definition of the term “exchange” if such organization, association, or group
of persons has registered with the Commission as a clearing agency pursuant to Section 17A of
the SEA and limits its exchange functions to operation of a trading session that is designed to
further the accuracy of end-of-day valuations. As noted above, this provision would codify a
series of exemptions that the Commission has granted over several years to SBS clearing
agencies that operate “forced trading” sessions.278 As part of the clearing and risk management
processes, an SBS clearing agency must establish an end-of-day valuation for any SBS in which
any of its members has a cleared position. Certain SBS clearing agencies utilize a valuation
mechanism whereby they require clearing members to submit indicative quotes for those SBS
products, and can require them to trade as a way to promote accurate submissions. The precise
means by which the clearing agency matches quotes from different clearing members could
 278 See supra note 37.
239
cause the clearing agency to fall within the definition of “exchange” in Section 3(a)(1) of the
SEA. The Commission previously has found that it was necessary or appropriate in the public
interest and consistent with the protection of investors to exempt clearing agencies that engage in
this activity from the definition of “exchange.”279 The Commission is now proposing to codify
this exemption. This exemption would cover only the forced-trading session of an SBS clearing
agency; any other exchange activity that a clearing agency might engage in could remain subject
to the SEA provisions and the Commission’s rules thereunder applying to exchanges.
Finally, the Commission is proposing to amend the introductory language of existing
paragraph (b) of Rule 3a1-1, which states: “Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this rule, an
organization, association, or group of persons shall not be exempt under this rule from the
definition of ‘exchange’ if . . .” Paragraph (b) then sets out procedural and substantive criteria
for the Commission to retract an exemption under paragraph (a) of Rule 3a1-1 if an exchange’s
share of the market in any one of the specified classes of securities exceeds a defined threshold.
The Commission is proposing to amend the introductory language of paragraph (b) of Rule 3a1-1
to cover only paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(3), not paragraph (a) as a whole.
The changed language is designed to clarify that the retraction provisions would not
apply to organizations, associations, or groups of persons who fall within proposed Rule
3a1-1(a)(4) or (a)(5). Thus, even if a registered SBSEF were to grow very large, Rule 3a1-1(b),
as proposed to be amended, would not afford a basis for the Commission to retract an SBSEF’s
exemption from the definition of “exchange” under proposed Rule 3a1-1(a)(4), which would
force the SBSEF to register as a national securities exchange (to avoid being an registered
 279 See id.
240
exchange). The Commission preliminarily believes that, in adopting Section 3D of the SEA,
Congress gave the Commission a mechanism to regulate SBSEFs of any size. Nothing in
Section 3D suggests that, if an SBSEF were to grow above a certain size, the Commission should
be able to withdraw that entity’s ability to operate as an SBSEF and instead compel it to register
as a national securities exchange.
Finally, the Commission preliminarily believes that it is not necessary to apply the
retraction provisions in Rule 3a1-1(b) to registered clearing agencies that engage in forced
trading sessions and are covered by proposed Rule 3a1-1(a)(5). SBS transactions effected using
this functionality are designed to facilitate the clearance and settlement process by rendering
more accurate the daily valuation that is used to calculate margin requirements. The entities that
utilize this functionality are already registered with the Commission—as clearing agencies—and
carry out these operations under rules that have been approved by the Commission. This trading
functionality is not effected for the purpose of conducting open-market transactions between
parties who are seeking to increase or decrease their positions for investment or hedging
purposes. Therefore, the Commission preliminarily believes that it would not be appropriate to
apply the retraction provisions of Rule 3a1-1(b) to clearing agencies that would be covered by
proposed Rule 3a1-1(a)(5), as this would force these clearing agencies also to register as national
securities exchanges.
The Commission seeks comment on the following:
192. Do you agree in general with the Commission’s proposal to exempt from the
statutory definition of “exchange” any registered SBSEF that provides a market place
for no securities other than SBS and any SBS clearing agency that engages in forced
trading sessions? Why or why not?
241
193. Do you agree with the particular language of proposed paragraphs (a)(4) and
(a)(5) of Rule 3a1-1? If not, how would you amend the language?
194. Do you agree with the Commission’s preliminary view, reflected in the proposed
new introductory language to paragraph (b) of Rule 3a1-1, that entities qualifying for
an exemption from the definition of “exchange” under proposed paragraphs (a)(4)
and (a)(5) of Rule 3a1-1 should not be subject to the retraction provisions of Rule
3a1-1(b)? Why or why not?
XIII. Rule 15a-12—SBSEFs as registered brokers; relief from certain broker
requirements
An SBSEF, by facilitating the execution of SBS between persons, also is engaged in the
business of effecting transactions in securities for the account of others and therefore meets the
SEA definition of “broker.”280 Absent an exception or exemption, an SBSEF—in addition to
being subject to the registration and regulatory requirements for SBSEFs—also would be
required to register with the Commission as a broker pursuant to Sections 15(a) and 15(b) of the
SEA281 and would be subject to all regulatory requirements applicable to brokers.
282 For
 280 See Section 3(a)(4) of the SEA, 15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(4).
281 15 U.S.C. 78o(a) and 78o(b). Section 15(a)(1) generally provides that, absent an
exception or exemption, a broker or dealer that uses the mails or any means of interstate
commerce to effect transactions in, or to induce or attempt to induce the purchase or sale
of, any security must register with the Commission. Section 15(b) generally provides the
manner of registration of brokers and dealers and other requirements applicable to
registered brokers and dealers.
282 As discussed in note 43 supra, a person that is acting as a broker solely because it is
acting as an SBSEF is currently exempt from the requirement to register with the
Commission as a broker and the Commission’s rules under the SEA that apply to brokers.
This exemption will expire upon the compliance date for the Commission’s final SBSEF
rules.
242
example, brokers and dealers must comply with a number of rules that govern their conduct,
including those relating to customer confirmations and disclosure of credit terms in margin
transactions.283
The Commission is proposing a new Rule 15a-12 under the SEA that would deem
registration with the Commission as an SBSEF also to constitute registration as a broker, and
would exempt a registered SBSEF from many broker requirements in light of the SBSEF
regulatory regime to which it would also be subject.
One statutory provision from which a registered SBSEF would be exempted is Section
17(a) of the SEA,284 which requires a registered broker (among other types of registered entity)
to make and keep records as prescribed by Commission rule. Because SBSEFs are required to
make and keep records as prescribed by Commission rule under Section 3D(d)(9) of the SEA,
imposing Section 17(a) on SBSEFs would be redundant. By contrast, one statutory provision
that would continue to apply to registered SBSEFs in their dual capacity as registered brokers
would be Section 17(b) of the SEA.
285
In addition, under Section 15(b)(8) of the SEA, it is unlawful for any registered broker or
dealer to effect transactions in securities unless it is a member of an SRO.286 Brokers and dealers
also must comply with a number of financial responsibility regulations, such as the net capital
 283 See 17 CFR 240.10b-10 and 240.10b-16.
284 15 U.S.C. 78q(a).
285 15 U.S.C. 78q(b) (providing that the records of registered brokers, among other types of
registered entity, are subject to examination by representatives of the Commission).
286 See 15 U.S.C. 78o(b)(8) and 240.15b9-1.
243
and customer protection rules.287 A registered broker or dealer also must make and keep current
books and records relating to its business and detailing, among other things, securities
transactions, money balances, and securities positions; keep records for required periods and
furnish copies of those records to the Commission on request; and file certain financial reports
with the Commission.288
The Commission preliminarily believes that Congress did not intend to subject SBSEFs
that act only as SBSEFs to a dual regulatory regime.
289 Therefore, using its authority under
Section 36(a)(1) of the SEA and its authority to establish procedures regarding the registration of
brokers, the Commission is proposing new Rule 15a-12 under the SEA that would allow an
SBSEF that is a broker, solely due to its activity with respect to SBS executed on or through the
SBSEF, to satisfy the requirement to register as a broker by registering as an SBSEF.290
Proposed Rule 15a-12(b) would provide that such an entity, if it registered as an SBSEF pursuant
proposed Rule 803, would be deemed also to have registered with the Commission pursuant to
Sections 15(a) and (b) of the SEA. The Commission is not proposing to exempt SBSEFs from
registration as brokers; rather, given the registration and regulatory requirements being proposed
for SBSEFs through Regulation SE, it is proposing to eliminate a separate registration process
 287 See 17 CFR 240.15c3-1 and 240.15c3-3.
288 See 17 CFR 240.17a-3, 240.17a-4, and 240.17a-5.
289 See 2011 SBSEF Proposal, 76 FR at 10959 (noting that this framework indicates that
Congress did not intend for entities that meet the definition of SBSEF also to be subject
to all of the requirements set forth in the SEA and the rules and regulations thereunder
applicable to brokers).
290 A foreign SBS trading venue covered by an exemption under proposed Rule 833(a)
would be exempt from the SEA’s definition of “broker” and, as a result, would not need
rely on proposed Rule 15a-12.
244
for broker/SBSEFs and much of the additive layer of regulation for brokers that the Commission
preliminarily believes is not necessary in light of the regulatory regime for SBSEFs.
Proposed Rule 15a-12 could not be utilized by an SBSEF that engaged in other types of
brokerage activity. Paragraph (a) of proposed Rule 15a-12 would define the term “SBSEF-B” to
mean an SBSEF that does not engage in any securities activity other than facilitating the trading
of SBS on or through the SBSEF. Thus, an SBSEF that acts as agent to SBS counterparties or
that acts in a discretionary manner with respect to the execution of SBS transactions, could not
avail itself of proposed Rule 15a-12. Also, if an inter-dealer broker elects not to separate its
inter-dealer broker functions from its SBSEF (by, for example, housing them in separate legal
entities), and instead chooses to operate the SBSEF in the same legal entity as the inter-dealer
broker, the entity could not avail itself of proposed Rule 15a-12 because it would not be an
SBSEF-B under the rule.
Paragraphs (c) to (e) of proposed Rule 15a-12 would set out the scope of broker
requirements from which an SBSEF-B would be exempted and which broker requirements
would continue to apply. Paragraph (c) would provide that an SBSEF-B would be exempt from
any provision of the SEA or the Commission’s rules thereunder applicable to brokers that by its
terms requires, prohibits, restricts, limits, conditions, or affects the activities of a broker, unless
such provision specifies that it applies to an SBSEF. Paragraph (d) of proposed Rule 15a-12
would provide that, notwithstanding paragraph (c), an SBSEF-B would still be subject to
Sections 15(b)(4),
291 Section 15(b)(6),
292 and Section 17(b) of the SEA.293
 291 15 U.S.C. 78o(b)(4).
292 15 U.S.C. 78o(b)(6)
293 15 U.S.C. 78q(b).
245
Sections 15(b)(4) and 15(b)(6) of the SEA serve as the basis for enforcing the federal
securities laws against registered brokers. Section 15(b)(4) provides that the Commission, upon
the making of specified findings, shall censure; place limitations on the activities, functions, or
operations of; suspend for a period not exceeding 12 months; or revoke the registration of any
broker or dealer. Similarly, Section 15(b)(6) of the SEA requires the Commission, upon the
making of specified findings, to censure, place limitations on, suspend, or bar such person an
associated person. Section 17(b) of the SEA is the legal basis under which the Commission may
examine registered brokers for compliance with the federal securities laws. Section 17(b)
authorizes the Commission to conduct reasonable periodic, special, or other examinations of all
records maintained by entities described in Section 17(a), including registered brokers. These
examinations may be conducted at any time, or from time to time, as the Commission deems
necessary or appropriate in the public interest, for the protection of investors, or otherwise in
furtherance of the purposes of the SEA.294 Proposed Rule 15a-12 would specify that these
examination and statutory disqualification provisions pertaining to registered brokers continue to
apply, despite Rule 15a-12 exempting an SBSEF-B from other broker requirements under the
SEA.
Finally, paragraph (e) of proposed Rule 15a-12 would exempt an SBSEF-B from the
Securities Investor Protection Act (“SIPA”). SIPA established the Securities Investor Protection
Corporation (“SIPC”), which oversees the liquidation of member firms that close when a

294 Id.
246
member firm is bankrupt or in financial trouble, and customer assets are missing.295 SIPC
protection is funded by assessments made on member firms.296
Section 2 of SIPA297 states that, unless otherwise provided, the SEA shall apply as if
SIPA constituted an amendment to, and was included as a section of, the SEA. An SBSEF-B, by
definition, would operate only as an SBSEF. The Commission preliminarily believes that it
would not be equitable to require an SBSEF-B to become a member of SIPC and pay SIPC
assessments, since the SBSEF-B would not have brokerage customers and would not hold any
customer funds or securities. Accordingly, under Section 36(a)(1) of the SEA, 298 the
Commission preliminarily believes that it is necessary or appropriate in the public interest, and is
consistent with the protection of investors, to exempt SBSEF-Bs from any requirement under
SIPA, including the requirement to pay assessments to the SIPC insurance fund. The
Commission is proposing to codify this exemption as Rule 15a-12(e).
The Commission seeks comment on the following:
195. Do you agree in principle with proposed Rule 15a-12? Why or why not?
196. Do you agree with the specific language of proposed Rule 15a-12? If not, how

295 See https://www.sipc.org/about-sipc/sipc-mission (“In a liquidation under the Securities
Investor Protection Act, SIPC and the court-appointed Trustee work to return customers’
securities and cash as quickly as possible. Within limits, SIPC expedites the return of
missing customer property by protecting each customer up to $500,000 for securities and
cash (including a $250,000 limit for cash only)”).
296 See 15 U.S.C. 78ddd(d).
297 15 U.S.C. 78bbb.
298 15 U.S.C. 78mm(a)(1) (giving the Commission broad exemptive authority, including the
ability to exempt any person or classes of persons from any provision of the SEA or any
rules thereunder, to the extent that such exemption is necessary or appropriate in the
public interest, and is consistent with the protection of investors).
247
would you revise the rule language, and why?
197. Are there any provisions listed in paragraph (d) of proposed Rule 15a-12 to which
an SBSEF-B should not be subject? If so, what provisions and why? Are there any
other provisions or broker requirements to which an SBSEF-B should be subject (and
thus added to paragraph (d) of proposed Rule 15a-12)? If so, what provisions or
requirements and why?
198. Do you believe that it is appropriate to exempt SBSEF-Bs from SIPA, as reflected
in proposed Rule 15a-12(e)? Why or why not?
XIV. Proposed Sunsetting of Temporary Exemption from SEA Definition of “Clearing
Agency” for Unregistered SBSEFs
In 2020, the Commission adopted Rule 17Ad-24 under the SEA299 to exempt from the
definition of “clearing agency” in Section 3(a)(23) of the SEA300 certain entities, including a
registered SBSEF, that would be deemed to be a clearing agency solely by reason of
(a) functions performed by such institution as part of customary dealing activities or providing
facilities for comparison of data respecting the terms of settlement of securities transactions
effected on such registered SBSEF, respectively; or (b) acting on behalf of a clearing agency or
participant therein in connection with the furnishing by the clearing agency of services to its
participants or the use of services of the clearing agency by its participants.
301 In adopting the
rule, the Commission explained that an entity performing such functions that triggers the
 299 17 CFR 240.17Ad-24.
300 15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(23).
301 See SEA Release No. 90667 (December 16, 2020), 86 FR 7637 (February 1, 2021).
248
requirement to register as a clearing agency—but that is not yet registered with the Commission
as an SBSEF—could rely on a temporary exemption from the requirement to register as a
clearing agency that the Commission issued in 2011.302 The Commission preliminarily believes
that, if it adopts a framework for the registration of SBSEFs, the 2011 Temporary Exemption
would no longer be necessary because entities carrying out the functions of SBSEFs would be
able to register with the Commission as such, thereby falling within the exemption from the
definition of “clearing agency” in existing Rule 17Ad-24.
The Commission seeks comment on the following:
199. Should the Commission sunset the 2011 Temporary Exemption to coincide with
the compliance date for Regulation SE, if adopted? If not, what timeline for
sunsetting the 2011 Temporary Exemption would be appropriate?
XV. Electronic Filings Under Regulation SE
Various provisions of proposed Regulation SE would require registered SBSEFs (or
SBSEF applicants) to file specified information electronically with the Commission using the
Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis, and Retrieval (“EDGAR”) system in Inline XBRL, a
structured, machine-readable data language. Such provisions include:
• Proposed Rule 803(b)(1)(i) and (3), regarding filings of, and amendments to, a Form
SBSEF application.
• Proposed Rules 803(e) and 803(f), regarding requests to withdraw or vacate an
application for registration.
• Proposed Rule 804(a)(1), regarding filings for listing products for trading by
 302 See id., 86 FR at 7650; SEA Release No. 64796 (July 1, 2011), 76 FR 39963, 39964 (July
7, 2011) (“2011 Temporary Exemption”).
249
certification.
• Proposed Rule 805(a)(1), regarding filings for voluntary submission of new products
for Commission review and approval.
• Proposed Rule 806(a)(1), regarding filings for voluntary submission of rules for
Commission review and approval.
• Proposed Rule 807(a)(1), regarding filings for self-certification of rules.
• Proposed Rule 807(d), regarding filings of weekly notifications to the Commission of
rules and rule amendments that were not required to be certified.
• Proposed Rule 829(g)(6), regarding submission to the Commission of reports related
to financial resources and related documentation.
• Proposed Rule 831(j)(2), regarding submission to the Commission of the annual
compliance report of SBSEF’s CCO.
Requiring SBSEFs to file this information in EDGAR would provide the Commission
and the public with a centralized, publicly accessible electronic database for the information,
thereby facilitating its use. EDGAR would also enable technical validation of the disclosures,
thus potentially reducing the incidence of non-discretionary errors (e.g., including text for a
disclosure that should contain only numbers). Moreover, requiring Inline XBRL tagging of the
reported disclosures, which would specifically comprise Inline XBRL block text tags for any
narrative disclosures, as well as detail tags for individual data points, would make the disclosures
more easily available and accessible to, and reusable by, market participants and the Commission
for retrieval, aggregation, and comparison across different SBSEFs and time periods, as
250
compared to an unstructured PDF, HTML, or ASCII format requirement for the reports.303
The Commission seeks comment on the following:
200. Would EDGAR be an appropriate system for these filings? Or should the
Commission use its Electronic Form Filing System/SRO Rule Tracking System
(“EFFS/SRTS”) or another file transfer system instead?304 Would requiring these
materials to be filed in EDGAR, EFFS/SRTS, or another file transfer system be more
beneficial for SBSEFs and other market participants? If so, why? How would the
use of these different systems impact the usability and accessibility of the materials
for data users? Is there another method of electronic submission that is preferable? If
so, please identify that method, why you believe it should be used, and the estimated
costs of such system for filers.
201. Should all filings be made through the same electronic system, or would different
filing systems be appropriate for different types of filings? If the latter, please
discuss.
202. Would Inline XBRL be an appropriate data language for these filings? Or should
the Commission use a different structured data language? If so, which data language
should be required, and why? Would requiring a different structured data language
 303 See Release No. 33-10514 (June 28, 2018), 83 FR 40846, 40847 (August 16, 2018).
Inline XBRL allows filers to embed XBRL data directly into an HTML document,
eliminating the need to tag a copy of the information in a separate XBRL exhibit. See id.,
83 FR at 40851.
304 The Commission’s EFFS/SRTS system was not designed to support filings using an open
structured data language such as Inline XBRL. As a result, requiring registrants to
submit filings via the EFFS/SRTS system may not be compatible with a requirement to
use Inline XBRL or any other open structured data language for the filings.
251
be more beneficial for SBSEFs and other market participants? How would the use of
a different data language impact the usability and accessibility of the materials for
data users? What time or expense is associated with your recommended structured
data language? Would a particular structured data language require any filers or users
to license commercial software they otherwise would not, and, if so, at what expense?
XVI. Amendments to Commission’s Rules of Practice for Appeals of SBSEF Actions
As noted above,305 SEA Core Principle 2 directs an SBSEF to exercise regulatory powers
over its market.306 Under proposed Rule 819 of Regulation SE, an SBSEF could take a variety of
disciplinary actions against a member that is found to violate the SBSEF’s rules, including fining
the member, limiting the member’s access, or barring the member entirely.307 SEA Core
Principle 2 also requires an SBSEF to establish rules governing access to its market.308 An
SBSEF could apply those rules in such a way as to limit a person’s access to the SBSEF or to
deny access entirely. The Commission preliminarily believes that general principles of due
 305 See supra Section VIII(B).
306 See, e.g., 15 U.S.C. 78c-4(d)(2)(A) (directing an SBSEF to “establish and enforce
compliance” with its rules) (emphasis added); 15 U.S.C. 78c-4(d)(2)(C) (directing an
SBSEF to “establish and enforce trading, trade processing, and participation rules that
will deter abuses and have the capacity to detect, investigate, and enforce those rules”)
(emphasis added).
307 See supra Section VIII(B). See also proposed Rule 819(c)(3) (relating to limitations on
access, including suspensions and permanent bars); proposed Rule 819(g) (relating to
disciplinary procedures and sanctions).
308 See 15 U.S.C. 78c-4(d)(2)(A)(ii) (directing an SBSEF to establish and enforce
compliance with any rule that imposes any limitation on access to the facility); 15 U.S.C.
78c-4(d)(2)(B)(i) (requiring an SBSEF to provide market participants with impartial
access to the market).
252
process necessitate an appeals procedure for final disciplinary actions taken by an SBSEF, for
denials or conditionings of membership, and for limitations or denials of access. Accordingly,
the Commission is proposing a number of amendments to its Rules of Practice to allow for such
appeals, and notes that the CFTC has similar procedures with respect to SEFs.
309
A. Amendment to Rule 101
Existing Rule 101 of the Commission’s Rules of Practice310 sets out definitions for
several terms used in the Rules of Practice. In particular, existing Rule 101(a)(9) defines
“proceeding” with respect to applications of review of actions by a variety of entities that are
subject to the Commission’s jurisdiction. The Commission is proposing a new paragraph
(a)(9)(ix) of Rule 101 that would provide that an application for a review of a determination
(such as a final disciplinary action or a limitation or denial of access to any service) by an
SBSEF would be a “proceeding” and thereby trigger applicability of the Rules of Practice.
B. Amendment to Rule 202
Existing Rule 202 of the Commission’s Rules of Practice311 permits a party in certain
proceedings before the Commission to make a motion to specify certain procedures with respect
to such proceeding. Rule 202(a) excludes certain types of proceedings, including enforcement or
disciplinary proceedings, proceedings to review a determination by an SRO, and proceedings to
review a determination of the PCAOB. Because the Commission is proposing new Rules 442
 309 See Part 9 of the CFTC’s rules (Rules Relating to Review of Exchange Disciplinary,
Access Denial or Other Adverse Actions). For purposes of Part 9, the term “exchange”
includes a SEF.
310 17 CFR 201.101.
311 17 CFR 201.202.
253
and 443, which set out specific procedures with respect to proceedings to review a determination
of an SBSEF,312 the Commission is proposing to revise Rule 202(a) to add such SBSEF-related
proceedings to the list of exclusions.
C. Amendment to Rule 210
Existing Rule 210 of the Commission’s Rules of Practice313 sets out Commission rules
with respect to parties, limited participants, and amici curiae in various proceedings before the
Commission. Paragraph (a)(1) of Rule 210 states that persons shall not be granted leave to
become a party or non-party participant on a limited basis in an enforcement or disciplinary
proceeding, a proceeding to review a determination by a SRO, or a proceeding to review a
determination by the PCAOB, except as authorized by paragraph (c) of Rule 210 (which permits
limited instances in which persons may participate for Commission disciplinary and enforcement
proceedings). Because the Commission is proposing new Rules 442 and 443, which set out
specific procedures with respect to proceedings to review a determination of an SBSEF,314 the
Commission is proposing to revise Rule 210 to exclude proceedings to review a determination by
an SBSEF among those types of proceedings from which persons may be granted leave to
become a party or a non-party participant on a limited basis.
D. Amendment to Rule 401
The Commission is proposing to amend existing Rule 401 of its Rules of Practice by
adding a new paragraph (f). New paragraph (f)(1) of existing Rule 401 would permit any person
aggrieved by a stay of action by an SBSEF entered in accordance with proposed Rule 442(c) to
 312 See infra Sections XVI(E) and (F).
313 17 CFR 201.210.
314 See infra Sections XVI(E) and (F).
254
make a motion to lift the stay. The Commission could also, at any time, on its own motion
determine whether to lift the automatic stay. New paragraph (f)(2) would provide that the
Commission may lift a stay summarily, without notice and opportunity for hearing. Finally, new
paragraph (f)(3) would provide that the Commission may expedite consideration of a motion to
lift a stay of action by an SBSEF, consistent with the Commission’s other responsibilities.
Where consideration is expedited, persons opposing the lifting of the stay could file a statement
in opposition within two days of service of the motion requesting lifting of the stay unless the
Commission, by written order, specifies a different period.
The Commission preliminarily believes that it is appropriate to allow persons affected by
certain stays of action by an SBSEF the opportunity to make a motion to request the lifting of the
stay. As discussed below, pursuant to proposed Rule 442, an aggrieved person could file an
application for review with the Commission with respect to a final disciplinary action, a final
action with respect to a denial or conditioning of membership, or a final action with respect to a
denial or limitation of access. The filing of such application would operate as a stay of the
SBSEF’s determination. The Commission preliminarily believes that, because of this automatic
stay procedure, an aggrieved person or the SBSEF itself should be afforded a mechanism by
which it could request the Commission to lift the stay, in addition to the Commission’s ability
under proposed Rule 401(f)(2) to lift a stay summarily, without notice and opportunity of
hearing.
E. Rule 442—Right to appeal
Proposed new Rule 442315 would establish the right to an appeal to the Commission of
 315 17 CFR 201.442.
255
certain determinations made by an SBSEF, and set out certain procedural matters relating to any
such appeal. Paragraph (a) of proposed Rule 442 would provide that an application for review
by the Commission may be filed by any person who is aggrieved by a determination of an
SBSEF with respect to any: (1) final disciplinary action, as defined in proposed Rule 835(b)(1);
(2) final action with respect to a denial or conditioning of membership, as defined in proposed
Rule 835(b)(2); or (3) final action with respect to a denial or limitation of access to any service
offered by the SBSEF, as defined in proposed Rule 835(b)(2). Paragraph (b) of proposed Rule
442 would set forth the procedure in such cases. Specifically, an aggrieved person could file an
application for review with the Commission (pursuant to existing Rule 151) within 30 days after
the notice filed by the SBSEF with the Commission pursuant to proposed Rule 835 is received
by the aggrieved person, and must serve the application on the SBSEF at the same time.316
Paragraph (c) of proposed Rule 442 would provide that filing an application for review with the
Commission pursuant to proposed Rule 835(b) would operate as a stay of the SBSEF’s
determination, unless the Commission otherwise orders either pursuant to a motion filed in
accordance with proposed Rule 401(f) or upon its own motion.317 The Commission preliminarily
believes that it is appropriate for the filing of an application for review to operate as an automatic
 316 Such application would be required to identify the SBSEF’s determination complained
of, set forth in summary form a statement of alleged errors in the action and supporting
reasons therefor, and state an address where the applicant can be served. The application
would be expected not to exceed two pages in length, and the notice of appearance
required by § 201.102(d) would have to accompany the application if the applicant is to
be represented by a representative. Any exception to an action not supported in an
opening brief that complies with § 201.450(b) could, at the discretion of the Commission,
be deemed to have been waived by the applicant.
317 17 CFR 201.442(c).
256
stay of the SBSEF’s determination, because such determination could have the effect of
significantly or even permanently damaging an aggrieved person’s business while the
Commission was conducting a review, which could take substantial time. In addition, the
Commission is proposing in Rule 401(f) a procedure whereby a person aggrieved by such stay,
including the SBSEF, could request that the Commission lift the stay. The proposed rules also
contain certain requirements relating to certification of the record and service of the index.318
Specifically, within 14 days after receipt of an application for review, an SBSEF would be
required to certify and file with the Commission one unredacted copy of the record upon which it
took the complained-of action. The SBSEF would be required to file electronically with the
Commission one copy of an index of such record, and serve one copy of the index on each party,
subject to the requirements in proposed Rule 442(d)(2) relating to sensitive personal information;
if applicable, such filings would have to be certified that they have complied with such
requirements relating to sensitive personal information. The Commission believes these
requirements are appropriate to ensure that sensitive personal information is not improperly or
inadvertently disseminated by an SBSEF as part of its filing of the record relating to the appeal
review.
F. Rule 443—Sua sponte review by Commission
New proposed Rule 443319 would provide that the Commission, on its own initiative,
could order review of any determination by an SBSEF (which would include a final disciplinary
action, a final action with respect to a denial or conditioning of membership, or a final action
 318 17 CFR 201.442(d)-(e).
319 17 CFR 201.443.
257
with respect to a denial or limitation of access to any services) that could be subject to an
application for review pursuant to proposed Rule 442(a) within 40 days after the SBSEF filed
notice thereof.
Proposed Rule 443 would further provide that the Commission could at any time before
issuing its decision raise or consider any matter that it deems material, whether or not raised by
the parties. If the Commission did so, under proposed Rule 443 the Commission would give
notice to the parties and an opportunity for supplemental briefing with respect to issues not
briefed by the parties, where the Commission believes that such briefing could significantly aid
the decisional process. The Commission preliminarily believes that it is appropriate that it have
the ability to review any determination filed by an SBSEF that could be subject to an application
for review under proposed Rule 442(a), even without an appeal of such determination by an
aggrieved party, should it believe that further consideration is warranted. Therefore, the
proposed rule would provide the Commission authority to obtain additional information through
supplemental briefings, as needed.
G. Amendment to Rule 450
Existing Rule 450 of the Commission’s Rules of Practice320 sets out requirements for
briefs filed with the Commission. Rule 450(a) sets out a briefing schedule, and paragraph (a)(2)
provides that the briefing schedule order shall be issued within 21 days, or such longer time as
provided by the Commission, of receipt by the Commission of various types of appeals. The
Commission is proposing to amend Rule 450(a)(2) by adding a new paragraph (iv) providing that
the 21 days would be triggered by “[r]eceipt by the Commission of an index to the record of a
 320 17 CFR 201.450.
258
determination by a security-based swap execution facility filed pursuant to § 201.442(d).”
H. Amendment to Rule 460
Existing Rule 460 of the Commission’s Rules of Practice321 states that the Commission
shall determine each matter on the basis of the record. Rule 460(a) defines the contents of the
record with respect to various types of action. The Commission is proposing a new paragraph
(a)(4) of Rule 460 that would state that, in a proceeding for a final decision before the
Commission reviewing a determination of an SBSEF, the record shall consist of: (i) the record
certified by the SBSEF pursuant to § 201.442(d); (ii) any application for review; and (iii) any
submissions, moving papers, and briefs filed on appeal or review.
I. Request for comment
The Commission requests comment on all aspects of its proposed rules and rule
amendments to provide for applications for review by the Commission of an SBSEF’s final
disciplinary action or denial or limitation of access. In particular:
203. Do you agree in general that final disciplinary action and denials or limitations of
access by an SBSEF be afforded a review process under the Commission’s Rules of
Practice? Why or why not?
204. Should aggrieved parties be permitted to submit a motion for a stay of an action
by an SBSEF under proposed Rule 401(f)? Do you believe that there may be
instances in which a motion for a stay may be necessary? Why or why not? Are
there any particular provisions that should be added or should not be included in such
a process? If so, please describe.
 321 17 CFR 201.460.
259
205. Are the provisions relating to SBSEFs under proposed Rule 442 appropriate? Are
there additional requirements that should be included or items that should be omitted?
Are the provisions relating to sensitive personal information and exceptions under
proposed paragraph (d)(2) appropriate? Why or why not?
206. Is it appropriate for the Commission to be able to review determinations of an
SBSEF sua sponte under proposed Rule 443? Why or why not?
XVII. Conclusion
The Commission requests comment on all aspects of proposed Regulation SE, including
any provision of a proposed rule about which the Commission did not ask a specific question
above. In addition, the Commission seeks commenters’ views on whether Regulation SE should
address any other aspects of SBSEFs or SBS execution generally where the Commission has not
proposed a specific rule. In particular:
207. Are there any other CFTC rules, or provisions of the CEA itself, relating to SEFs
that you believe should be adapted by the Commission to apply to SBSEFs? If so,
which rules or provisions and why?
208. Are there any other requirements that the Commission should apply to SBSEF
members, or which the Commission should require SBSEFs to apply to their
members? If so, what requirements and why? What would be the legal basis for
those additional requirements?
XVIII.Compliance Schedule
To facilitate the efficient registration of SBSEFs and compliance with Regulation SE, the
Commission intends to include a compliance schedule along with any final rules, if adopted. To
assist it in developing an appropriate compliance schedule, the Commission seeks comment on
260
the following matters:
209. If the Commission were to substantially harmonize its SBSEF rules and
registration procedures with those of the CFTC, as proposed, how long would
respondents need to submit a Form SBSEF to the Commission after Regulation SE
and Form SBSEF are adopted (assuming that the applicant is not registered as a SEF
with the CFTC)?
210. Please provide your view of the optimal compliance schedule(s) and explain your
rationale.
211. Should the compliance date for foreign SBS trading venues that seek an
exemption order under Rule 833(a) coincide with the date by which SBSEF
applicants would have to be registered by the Commission? If you believe that such
foreign SBS trading venues should have a different compliance date, what date
should that be and why?
XIX. Economic Analysis
A. Introduction
To increase the transparency and oversight of the OTC derivatives market,322 Title VII of
the Dodd-Frank Act requires the Commission to undertake a number of rulemakings to
implement the regulatory framework for SBS that is set forth in the legislation, including among
other things, (1) the registration and regulation323 of SBSEFs; and (2) mitigating conflicts of
 322 See Pub. L. No. 111-203 Preamble.
323 The regulation of SBSEFs includes, among other things, requiring SBSEFs to comply
with the Core Principles set forth in Section 3D(d) of the SEA. See Section VIII, supra.
261
interest with respect to SBSEFs, SBS exchanges, and SBS clearing agencies. To satisfy these
statutory mandates, the Commission is proposing Regulation SE and associated forms that would
create a regime for the registration and regulation of SBSEFs and address other issues relating to
SBS execution generally.
324 One of the rules being proposed as part of Regulation SE, Rule 834,
would implement Section 765 of the Dodd-Frank Act, which is intended to mitigate conflicts of
interest at SBSEFs and SBS exchanges. Other rules being proposed as part of Regulation SE
would address the cross-border application of the SEA’s trading venue registration requirements
and the trade execution requirement for SBS.
In addition, the Commission is proposing to amend existing Rule 3a1-1 under the SEA to
exempt, from the SEA definition of “exchange,” registered SBSEFs that provide a market place
for no securities other than SBS and certain registered clearing agencies. The Commission also
is proposing new Rule 15a-12 under the SEA that, while affirming that an SBSEF also would be
a broker under the SEA, would exempt a registered SBSEF from certain broker requirements.
The Commission also is proposing certain new rules and amendments to its Rules of Practice to
allow persons who are aggrieved by certain determinations by an SBSEF to apply for review by
the Commission. The Commission also is withdrawing all previously proposed rules regarding
these subjects.
Currently, SBS trade in the OTC market, rather than on regulated markets. The existing
market for SBS is opaque, with little, if any, pre-trade transparency. With limited transparency,
the information asymmetry between liquidity providers (i.e., SBS dealers) and end users could be
 324 Among other things, the Commission is proposing Form SBSEF for persons seeking to
register with the Commission as an SBSEF and a submission cover sheet and instructions
to be used in rule and product filings made by SBSEFs.
262
significant. Specifically, liquidity providers may observe information about the trading process
(e.g., trading interest, quotes, order flows, and trades) that end users typically cannot observe.
The SBS market also is decentralized such that market participants incur search costs to locate
other market participants in order to trade.
While the SBS market is decentralized, it also is interconnected and global in scope.
325
SBS dealers can have hundreds of counterparties, consisting of end users and other SBS dealers.
Trading venues may serve hundreds of participants, consisting of SBS dealers and end users.
SBS transactions arranged, negotiated, or executed by personnel located in the U.S. may involve
wholly foreign counterparties. Furthermore, U.S. persons may choose to trade SBSs on foreign
venues, which are subject to OTC derivatives regulations imposed by local regulatory
authorities.
The Commission is mindful of the economic effects, including the costs and benefits, of
the proposal. Section 3(f) of the SEA, 15 U.S.C. 78c(f), directs the Commission, when engaging
in rulemaking where it is required to consider or determine whether an action is necessary or
appropriate in the public interest, to consider, in addition to the protection of investors, whether
the action will promote efficiency, competition, and capital formation. In addition, Section
23(a)(2) of the SEA 15 U.S.C. 78w(a)(2), requires the Commission, when making rules under
the SEA, to consider the impact that the rules would have on competition, and prohibits the
Commission from adopting any rule that would impose a burden on competition not necessary or
appropriate in furtherance of the purposes of the SEA.
The analysis below addresses the likely economic effects of the proposal, including its
 325 See also Section IX(A) supra and XIX(B)(2)(c) infra (discussing the global nature of the
SBS market).
263
anticipated and estimated benefits and costs and its likely effects on efficiency, competition, and
capital formation. The Commission also discusses the potential economic effects of certain
alternatives to the approaches taken in this release.
B. Economic baseline
To assess the economic effects of the proposed rules and amendments, the Commission is
using as the baseline the SBS market as it currently exists, including applicable rules the
Commission has already adopted, but excluding rules the Commission has proposed but not yet
finalized. The analysis includes provisions of the SEA, as amended by the Dodd-Frank Act, that
currently govern the SBS market, and rules adopted by the Commission thereunder, including in
the Intermediary Definitions Adopting Release,326 the Cross-Border Adopting Release,327 the
SDR Rules and Core Principles Adopting Release,328 the Regulation SBSR Adopting Release
 326 See Further Definition of “Swap Dealer,” “Security-Based Swap Dealer,” “Major Swap
Participant,” “Major Security-Based Swap Participant” and “Eligible Contract
Participant,” SEA Release No. 66868 (April 27, 2012), 77 FR 30596 (May 23, 2012)
(“Intermediary Definitions Adopting Release”).
327 See Application of “Security-Based Swap Dealer” and “Major Security-Based Swap
Participant” Definitions to Cross-Border Security-Based Swap Activities, SEA Release
No. 72472 (June 25, 2014), 79 FR 47278 (August 12, 2014) (“Cross-Border Adopting
Release”).
328 See Security-Based Swap Data Repository Registration, Duties, and Core Principles,
SEA Release No. 74246 (February 11, 2015), 80 FR 14438 (March 19, 2015) (“SDR
Rules and Core Principles Adopting Release”).
264
I,
329 the Registration Adopting Release,330 the ANE Adopting Release,331 the Business Conduct
Adopting Release,332 the Trade Acknowledgement and Verification Adopting Release,333 the
Regulation SBSR Adopting Release II,
334 the Rule of Practice 194 Adopting Release,335 the
Capital, Margin, and Segregation Adopting Release,336 the Recordkeeping and Reporting
 329 See supra note 84.
330 See Registration Process for Security-Based Swap Dealers and Major Security-Based
Swap Participants, SEA Release No. 75611 (August 5, 2015), 80 FR 48964 (August 14,
2015) (“Registration Adopting Release”).
331 See Security-Based Swap Transactions Connected with a Non-U.S. Person’s Dealing
Activity That Are Arranged, Negotiated, or Executed By Personnel Located in a U.S.
Branch or Office or in a U.S. Branch or Office of an Agent; Security-Based Swap Dealer
De Minimis Exception, SEA Release No. 77104 (February 10, 2016), 81 FR 8598
(February 19, 2016) (“ANE Adopting Release”).
332 See Business Conduct Standards for Security-Based Swap Dealers and Major SecurityBased Swap Participants, SEA Release No. 77617 (April 14, 2016), 81 FR 29960 (May
13, 2016) (“Business Conduct Adopting Release”).
333 See Trade Acknowledgment and Verification of Security-Based Swap Transactions, SEA
Release No. 78011 (June 8, 2016), 81 FR 39808 (June 17, 2016) (“Trade
Acknowledgment and Verification Adopting Release”).
334 See supra note 229.
335 See Applications by Security-Based Swap Dealers or Major Security-Based Swap
Participants for Statutorily Disqualified Associated Persons To Effect or Be Involved in
Effecting Security-Based Swaps, SEA Release No. 84858 (December 19, 2018), 84 FR
4906-47 (February 19, 2019) (“Rule of Practice 194 Adopting Release”).
336 See Capital, Margin, and Segregation Requirements for Security-Based Swap Dealers
and Major Security-Based Swap Participants and Capital and Segregation Requirements
for Broker-Dealers, SEA Release No. 86175 (June 21, 2019), 84 FR 43872 (August 22,
2019) (“Capital, Margin, and Segregation Adopting Release”).
265
Adopting Release,337 the Risk Mitigation Adopting Release,338 the Cross-Border Amendments
Adopting Release,339 and the Clearing Exemption Adopting Release.
340 The baseline also
includes the Temporary SBSEF Exemptions341 and the CFTC rules that apply to CFTCregistered SEFs. The following sections discuss available data from the SBS market; SBS
activity and market participants; distribution of transaction size; other markets and existing
regulatory frameworks; number of entities that likely will register as SBSEFs; SBS trading on
platforms; global regulatory efforts; and trading models.
1. Available data from the SBS market
The Commission’s understanding of the market is informed, in part, by available data on
SBS transactions, though the Commission acknowledges that limitations in the data limit the
extent to which it is possible to quantitatively characterize the market.342 Since these data do not
 337 See Requirements for Security-Based Swap Dealers, Major Security-Based Swap
Participants, and Broker-Dealers; Capital Rule for Certain Security-Based Swap
Dealers, SEA Release No. 87005 (September 19, 2019), 84 FR 68550 (December 16,
2019) (“Recordkeeping and Reporting Adopting Release”).
338 See Risk Mitigation Techniques for Uncleared Security-Based Swaps, SEA Release No.
87782 (December 18, 2019), 85 FR 6359 (February 4, 2020) (“Risk Mitigation Adopting
Release”).
339 See Cross-Border Application of Certain Security-Based Swap Requirements, SEA
Release No. 87780 (December 18, 2019), 85 FR 6270 (February 4, 2020) (“Cross-Border
Amendments Adopting Release”).
340 See Exemption from the Definition of “Clearing Agency” for Certain Activities of
Security-Based Swap Dealers and Security-Based Swap Execution Facilities, SEA
Release No. 90667 (December 16, 2020), 86 FR 7637 (February 1, 2021) (“Clearing
Exemption Adopting Release”).
341 See supra Section V and note 42.
342 The Commission also relies on qualitative information regarding market structure and
evolving market practices provided by commenters and knowledge and expertise of
Commission staff.
266
cover the entire market, the Commission has analyzed market activity using a sample of
transaction data that includes only certain segments of the market. The Commission believes,
however, that the data underlying this analysis provides reasonably comprehensive information
regarding single-name CDS transactions and the composition of the participants in the singlename CDS market.
Specifically, the analysis of the current state of the SBS market is based on data obtained
from the DTCC Derivatives Repository Limited Trade Information Warehouse (“TIW”),
especially data regarding the activity of market participants in the single-name CDS market
during the period from 2008 to 2020. Although SBS are not limited to single-name CDS,343
single-name CDS contracts make up a majority of SBS, and we believe that the single-name
CDS data are sufficiently representative of the market to inform our analysis of the current SBS
market. According to data published by the Bank for International Settlements (“BIS”), as of
December 2020, the global notional amount outstanding in single-name CDS was approximately
$3.5 trillion,344 in multi-name index CDS was approximately $4.5 trillion, and in multi-name,
non-index CDS was approximately $347 billion.345 The total gross market value outstanding in
single-name CDS was approximately $77 billion, and in multi-name CDS instruments was
 343 The Commission explains below that data related to single-name CDS provide
reasonably comprehensive information for the purpose of this analysis.
344 The global notional amount outstanding represents the total face amount used to calculate
payments under outstanding contracts. The gross market value is the cost of replacing all
open contracts at current market prices.
345 See Global OTC Derivatives Market: Table D5.2 Commodity Contracts, Credit Default
Swap, BIS (updated January 13, 2022), available at
https://stats.bis.org/statx/srs/table/d5.2.
267
approximately $125 billion.346 The global notional amount outstanding in equity forwards and
swaps as of December 2020 was $3.6 trillion, with total gross market value of $321 billion.347
The data available from TIW does not encompass those CDS transactions that both:
(i) do not involve U.S. counterparties;348 and (ii) are based on non-U.S. reference entities.
Notwithstanding this limitation, the TIW single-name CDS data should provide sufficient
information to permit the Commission to identify the types of market participants active in the
 346 See id.
347 These totals include swaps and SBS, as well as products that are excluded from the
definition of “swap,” such as certain equity forwards. See Global OTC Derivatives
Market: Table D5.1 Foreign Exchange, Interest Rate, Equity Linked Contracts, BIS
(updated January 13, 2022), available at https://stats.bis.org/statx/srs/table/d5.1. For the
purposes of this analysis, the Commission assumes that multi-name index CDS are not
narrow-based index CDS and therefore do not fall within the definition of “security-based
swap.” See 15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(68)(A). See also Further Definition of “Swap,” “SecurityBased Swap,” and “Security-Based Swap Agreement”; Mixed Swaps; Security-Based
Swap Agreement Recordkeeping, 77 FR 48208. The Commission also assumes that all
instruments reported as equity forwards and swaps are SBS, potentially resulting in
underestimation of the proportion of the SBS market represented by single-name CDS.
Therefore, when measured on the basis of gross notional outstanding, single-name CDS
appear to constitute roughly 49% of the SBS market. Although the BIS data reflect the
global OTC derivatives market and not just the U.S. market, the Commission has no
reason to believe that this ratio differs significantly in the U.S. market.
348 Following publication of the Warehouse Trust Guidance on CDS data access, TIW
surveyed market participants, asking for the physical address associated with each of
their accounts (i.e., where the account is organized as a legal entity). This physical
address is designated the registered office location by TIW. When an account reports a
registered office location, the Commission has assumed that the registered office location
reflects the place of domicile for the fund or account. When an account does not report a
registered office location, the Commission has assumed that the settlement country
reported by the investment adviser or parent entity to the fund or account is the place of
domicile. Thus, for purposes of this analysis, the Commission has classified accounts as
“U.S. counterparties” when they have reported a registered office location in the United
States. The Commission notes, however, that this classification is not necessarily
identical in all cases to the definition of “U.S. person” under SEA Rule 3a71-3(a)(4).
268
SBS market and the general pattern of dealing within that market.349
In addition to the TIW single-name CDS data, the Commission uses data on SBS
transactions reported to registered security-based swap data repositories (SDRs) to describe the
baseline. Beginning on November 8, 2021, market participants are required to report SBS
transactions to registered SDRs pursuant to Regulation SBSR. The Commission uses data on
SBS transactions in the credit, equity, and interest rate asset classes that were executed between
November 8, 2021 and February 28, 2022 to quantify the extent of SBS trading on platforms.
2. SBS market activity and participants
a. SBS Entities
Final SBS Entity registration rules have been adopted and compliance was required as of
November 1, 2021.350 As of January 3, 2022, 44 entities had registered with the Commission as
SBS dealers and no entity had registered as a major SBS participant.351
Firms that act as SBS dealers play a central role in the SBS market. Based on an analysis
 349 The challenges the Commission faces in estimating measures of current market activity
stem, in part, from the absence of comprehensive reporting requirements for SBS market
participants. The Commission has adopted rules regarding regulatory reporting and
public dissemination of SBS transactions that are designed, when fully implemented, to
provide the Commission with additional measures of market activity that will allow the
Commission to better understand and monitor activity in the SBS market. See Regulation
SBSR Adopting Release II, 81 FR at 53545.
350 See Key Dates for Registration of Security-Based Swap Dealers and Major SecurityBased Swap Participants, available at: https://www.sec.gov/page/key-dates-registrationsecurity-based-swap-dealers-and-major-security-based-swap-participants.
351 See List of Registered Security-Based Swap Dealers and Major Security-Based Swap
Participants, available at: https://www.sec.gov/files/list_of_sbsds_msbsps-_01-03-
2022locked-final.xlsx (providing the list of registered SBS dealers and major SBS
participants that was updated as of January 3, 2022).
269
of 2020 single-name CDS data in TIW, accounts of registered SBS dealer firms intermediated
transactions with a gross notional amount of approximately $1.99 trillion, with approximately
55% of the gross notional intermediated by the top five SBS dealer accounts.352
These SBS dealers transact with hundreds or thousands of counterparties. Approximately
8% of accounts of SBS dealer firms observable in TIW have entered into SBS with over 1,000
unique counterparty accounts as of year-end 2020.353 Another 23% of these accounts transacted
with 500 to 1,000 unique counterparty accounts; 38% transacted with 100 to 500 unique
accounts; and 31% of these accounts intermediated SBS with fewer than 100 unique
counterparties in 2020. The median SBS dealer account transacted with 276 unique accounts
(with an average of approximately 416 unique accounts). Non-SBS dealer counterparties
transacted almost exclusively with these SBS dealers. In 2020, the median non-SBS dealer
counterparty transacted with 1.3 SBS dealer accounts (with an average of approximately 2.5 SBS
dealer accounts).
b. Other SBS market participants
In addition to SBS dealers, thousands of other participants appear as counterparties to
SBS transactions in our sample, including but not limited to: investment companies, pension
funds, private funds, sovereign entities, and industrial companies. The Commission observes
 352 The Commission staff analysis of TIW transaction records indicates that approximately
99% of single-name CDS price-forming transactions in 2020 involved an ISDArecognized dealer.
353 Many dealer entities and financial groups transact through numerous accounts. Given
that individual accounts may transact with hundreds of counterparties, the Commission
may infer that entities and financial groups may transact with at least as many
counterparties as the largest of their accounts.
270
that most non-SBS dealer users of SBS do not engage in trading directly, but trade through
banks, investment advisers, or other types of firms acting as SBS dealers or agents. Based on an
analysis of the counterparties to trades reported to the TIW, there are 2,321 entities that engaged
directly in trading between November 2006 and December 2020.
354
As shown in Table 1 below, close to three-quarters of these entities (DTCC-defined
“firms” shown in TIW, which we refer to here as “transacting agents”) were identified as
investment advisers, of which approximately 40% (about 32% of all transacting agents) were
registered as investment advisers under the Investment Advisers Act.355 Although investment
advisers are the vast majority of transacting agents, the transactions they executed account for
only 14.2% of all single-name CDS trading activity reported to the TIW, measured by number of
transaction-sides (each transaction has two transaction sides, i.e., two transaction counterparties).
The vast majority of transactions (82.1%) measured by number of transaction-sides were
executed by ISDA-recognized SBS dealers.
 354 These 2,321 entities, which are presented in more detail in Table 1 below, include all
DTCC-defined “firms” shown in TIW as transaction counterparties that report at least
one transaction to TIW as of December 2020. The staff in the Division of Economic and
Risk Analysis classified these firms, which are shown as transaction counterparties, by
machine matching names to known third-party databases and by manual classification.
See, e.g., ANE Adopting Release, 81 FR 8602, at n. 43. Manual classification was based
in part on searches of the EDGAR and Bloomberg databases, the SEC’s Investment
Adviser Public Disclosure database, and a firm’s public website or the public website of
the account represented by a firm. The staff also referred to ISDA protocol adherence
letters available on the ISDA website.
355 See 15 U.S.C. 80b1-80b21. Transacting agents participate directly in the SBS market,
without relying on an intermediary, on behalf of principals. For example, a university
endowment might hold a position in SBS that is established by an investment adviser that
transacts on the endowment’s behalf. In this case, the university endowment is a
principal that uses the investment adviser as its transacting agent.
271
Table 1. The number of transacting agents by counterparty type and the fraction of total
trading activity, from November 2006 through December 2020, represented by each
counterparty type.
Transacting Agents NumberPercent
Transaction
share
Investment Advisers 1823 78.5% 14.2%
- SEC registered 734 31.6% 9.5%
Banks 274 11.8% 3.3%
Pension Funds 30 1.3% 0.1%
Insurance Companies 48 2.1% 0.2%
ISDA-Recognized SBS Dealers356 17 0.7% 82.1%
Other357 129 5.6% 0.2%
Total 2,321 100.0% 100%
Principal holders of CDS risk exposure are represented by “accounts” in the TIW.358 The
staff’s analysis of these accounts in TIW shows that the 2,321 transacting agents classified in
 356 For the purpose of this analysis, the ISDA-recognized SBS dealers are those identified by
ISDA as belonging to the G14 or G16 dealer group during the period: J.P. Morgan Chase
NA (and Bear Stearns), Morgan Stanley, Bank of America NA (and Merrill Lynch),
Goldman Sachs, Deutsche Bank AG, Barclays Capital, Citigroup, UBS, Credit Suisse
AG, RBS Group, BNP Paribas, HSBC Bank, Lehman Brothers, Société Générale, Crédit
Agricole, Wells Fargo, and Nomura. See, e.g., ISDA, 2010 ISDA Operations
Benchmarking Survey (2010), available at https://www.isda.org/a/5eiDE/isdaoperations-survey-2010.pdf.
357 This category excludes clearing counterparties (CCPs). Same-day cleared trades are
recorded in the DTCC dataset as two clearing legs, each between a CCP (ICE Clear
Credit, ICE Clear Europe, and LCH.Clearnet) and the original counterparty in the
underlying trade. As these are not price-forming trades, the counts in the last column in
Table 1 are adjusted to reflect the original counterparties, excluding a CCP. Though
original counterparties cannot be paired up to same-day cleared trades, to adjust for sameday clearing each leg against the CCP is counted as one half of a transaction and the
notional amount of the trade is halved as well.
358 “Accounts” as defined in the TIW context are not equivalent to “accounts” in the
definition of “U.S. person” in SEA Rule 3a71-3(a)(4)(i)(C). They also do not necessarily
represent separate legal persons. One entity or legal person might have multiple
accounts. For example, a bank may have one DTCC account for its U.S. headquarters
and one DTCC account for one of its foreign branches.
272
Table 1 represent 15,187 principal risk holders. Table 2 below classifies these principal risk
holders by their counterparty type and whether they are represented by a registered or
unregistered investment adviser.359 For instance, banks in Table 1 allocated transactions across
370 accounts, of which 35 were represented by investment advisers. In the remaining instances,
banks traded for their own accounts. Meanwhile, ISDA-recognized SBS dealers in Table 1
allocated transactions across 104 accounts. Private funds are the largest type of account holders
that the Commission was able to classify, and although not verified through a recognized
database, most of the funds we were not able to classify appear to be private funds.360
Table 2. The number and percentage of account holders—by type—who participate in the
SBS market through a registered investment adviser, an unregistered investment adviser,
or directly as a transacting agent, from November 2006 through December 2020.
Account Holders
by Type
Number Represented by a
registered investment
adviser
Represented by an
unregistered
investment adviser
Participant is
transacting
agent361
Private Funds 4,447 2,283 51% 2,089 47% 75 2%
DFA Special
Entities
1,542 1,476 96% 43 3% 23 1%
Registered
Investment
Companies
1,382 1,295 94% 82 6% 5 0%
Banks (non- 370 26 7% 9 2% 335 91%
 359 Unregistered investment advisers include all investment advisers not registered under the
Investment Advisers Act and might include investment advisers registered with a state or
a foreign authority, as well as investment advisers that are exempt reporting advisers
under Section 203(l) or 203(m) of the Investment Advisers Act.
360 For the purposes of this discussion, “private fund” encompasses various unregistered
investment vehicles, including hedge funds, private equity funds, and venture capital
funds. There remain over 5,800 DTCC accounts unclassified by type. Although
unclassified, each account was manually reviewed to verify that it was not likely to be a
special entity within the meaning of the Dodd-Frank Act and instead was likely to be an
entity such as a corporation, an insurance company, or a bank.
361 This column reflects the number of participants who are also trading for their own
accounts.
273
ISDA-recognized
SBS dealers)
Insurance
Companies
341 210 62% 46 13% 85 25%
ISDA-Recognized
SBS Dealers
104 0 0% 0 0% 104 100%
Foreign
Sovereigns
93 67 72% 6 6% 20 22%
Non-Financial
Corporations
125 93 74% 10 8% 22 18%
Finance
Companies
59 43 73% 0 0% 16 27%
Other/Unclassified 6,724 4,081 61% 2,348 35% 295 4%
All 15,187 9,574 63% 4,633 31% 980 6%
c. SBS market participant domiciles
As depicted in Figure 1 below, domiciles of new accounts participating in the SBS
market have shifted over time. It is unclear whether these shifts represent changes in the types of
participants active in this market, changes in reporting, or changes in transaction volumes in
particular underliers. For example, the percentage of new entrants that are foreign accounts
increased from 24.4% in the first quarter of 2008 to approximately 50% in the last quarter of
2020, which might reflect an increase in participation by foreign account holders in the SBS
market, though the total number of new entrants that are foreign accounts decreased from 112 in
the first quarter of 2008 to 38 in the last quarter of 2020.362 Additionally, the percentage of the
subset of new entrants that are foreign accounts managed by U.S. persons increased from 4.6%
in the first quarter of 2008 to 11.8% in the last quarter of 2020, and the absolute number changed
from 21 to 9, which also might reflect more specifically the flexibility with which market
 362 These estimates were calculated by Commission staff using TIW data.
274
participants can restructure their market participation in response to regulatory intervention,
competitive pressures, and other incentives.
363 At the same time, apparent changes in the
percentage of new accounts with foreign domiciles might also reflect improvements in reporting
by market participants to TIW, an increase in the percentage of transactions between U.S. and
non-U.S. counterparties, and/or increased transactions in single-name CDS on U.S. reference
entities by foreign persons.364
Figure 1
SOURCE: DTCC CDS – TIW. “US” refers to the percentage of new accounts with a domicile
 363 See Charles Levinson, U.S. banks moved billions in trades beyond the CFTC’s reach,
REUTERS (August 21, 2015) (retrieved from Factiva database). The estimates of 21 and
25 were calculated by Commission staff using TIW data.
364 The available data do not include all SBS transactions but only transactions in singlename CDS that involve either (1) at least one account domiciled in the United States
(regardless of the reference entity); or (2) single-name CDS on a U.S. reference entity
(regardless of the U.S.-person status of the counterparties).
0%
20%
40%
60%
80%
2008Q1
2008Q3
2009Q1
2009Q3
2010Q1
2010Q3
2011Q1
2011Q3
2012Q1
2012Q3
2013Q1
2013Q3
2014Q1
2014Q3
2015Q1
2015Q3
2016Q1
2016Q3
2017Q1
2017Q3
2018Q1
2018Q3
2019Q1
2019Q3
2020Q1
2020Q3
Foreign Foreign Managed by US US
Domicile of DTCC-TIW Funds
(% of new accounts and funds )
275
in the United States. “Foreign” refers to the percentage of new accounts with a domicile outside
the United States and not managed or affiliated with a U.S. entity. “Foreign Managed by US”
refers collectively to the percentage of new accounts outside the United States that are managed
by a U.S. person, new accounts outside the United States for a foreign branch of a U.S. person,
and new accounts outside the United States for a foreign subsidiary of a U.S. person. Unique
new accounts are aggregated each quarter and percentages are computed on a quarterly basis
from January 2008 through December 2020.
Figure 2 below describes the percentage of global, notional transaction volume in North
American corporate single-name CDS reported to TIW between January 2011 and December
2020, separated by whether transactions are between two ISDA-recognized SBS dealers
(“interdealer transactions”) or whether a transaction has at least one non-SBS dealer
counterparty. Figure 2 also shows that the portion of the notional volume of North American
corporate single-name CDS represented by interdealer transactions has remained fairly constant
through 2015, before falling from approximately 68% in 2015 to under 40% in 2020. This fall
corresponds to the availability of clearing to non-SBS dealers. Interdealer transactions continue
to represent a significant fraction of trading activity, even as notional volume has declined over
the past ten years,365 from just under $2 trillion in 2011 to less than $500 billion in 2020.366
 365 The start of this decline predates the enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act and the proposal
of rules thereunder, which is important to note for the purpose of understanding the
economic baseline for this rulemaking.
366 This estimate is lower than the gross notional amount of $3.5 trillion noted in Section
XIX(B)(1), supra, as it includes only the subset of single-name CDS referencing North
American corporate documentation.
276
Figure 2
SOURCE: DTCC CDS – TIW. Global, notional trading volume in North American corporate
single-name CDS by calendar year and the fraction of volume that is interdealer. Same-day
cleared trades are assumed to be either interdealer or between an SBS dealer and an end user
(transactions between two end users are rare in both cleared and uncleared trading).
The high level of interdealer trading activity reflects the central position of a small
number of SBS dealers, each of which intermediates trades with many hundreds of
counterparties. While the Commission is unable to quantify the current level of trading costs for
single-name CDS, these SBS dealers appear to enjoy market power as a result of their small
number and the large proportion of order flow that they privately observe.
Against this backdrop of declining North American corporate single-name CDS activity,
0%
10%
20%
30%
40%
50%
60%
70%
80%
0
1
1
2
2
3
3
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
Gross Notional
Trillions
Global Volume North American Corporate Single-Name CDS
Interdealer End User % Interdealer
277
about half of the trading activity in North American corporate single-name CDS reflected in the
set of data that the Commission analyzed was between counterparties domiciled in the United
States and counterparties domiciled abroad, as shown in Figure 3 below. Using the self-reported
registered office location of the TIW accounts as a proxy for domicile, the Commission estimates
that only 13% of the global transaction volume by notional volume between 2008 and 2020 was
between two U.S.-domiciled counterparties, compared to 49% entered into between one U.S.-
domiciled counterparty and a foreign-domiciled counterparty, and 38% entered into between two
foreign-domiciled counterparties.367
If the Commission instead considers the number of cross-border transactions from the
perspective of the domicile of the corporate group (e.g., by classifying a foreign bank branch or
foreign subsidiary of a U.S. entity as domiciled in the United States), the percentages shift
significantly. Under this approach, the fraction of transactions entered into between two U.S.-
domiciled counterparties increases to 35%, and to 50% for transactions entered into between a
U.S.-domiciled counterparty and a foreign-domiciled counterparty. By contrast, the proportion
of activity between two foreign-domiciled counterparties drops from 38% to 15%. This change
in respective shares based on different classifications suggests that the activity of foreign
subsidiaries of U.S. firms and foreign branches of U.S. banks accounts for a higher percentage of
SBS activity than U.S. subsidiaries of foreign firms and U.S. branches of foreign banks. It also
demonstrates that financial groups based in the United States are involved in an overwhelming
majority (approximately 85%) of all reported transactions in North American corporate single-
 367 For purposes of this discussion, the Commission has assumed that the registered office
location reflects the place of domicile for the fund or account, but the Commission notes
that this domicile does not necessarily correspond to the location of an entity’s sales or
trading desk. See ANE Adopting Release, 81 FR at 8607, n. 83.
278
name CDS.
Financial groups based in the United States are also involved in a majority of interdealer
transactions in North American corporate single-name CDS. Of the 2020 transactions on North
American corporate single-name CDS between two ISDA-recognized SBS dealers and their
branches or affiliates, 81% of transaction notional volume involved at least one account of an
entity with a U.S. parent.368 The Commission notes, in addition, that a majority of North
American corporate single-name CDS transactions occur in the interdealer market or between
SBS dealers and foreign non-SBS dealers, with the remaining portion of the market consisting of
transactions between SBS dealers and U.S.-person non-SBS dealers. Specifically, 81% of North
American corporate single-name CDS transactions involved either two ISDA-recognized SBS
dealers or an ISDA-recognized SBS dealer and a foreign non-SBS dealer. Approximately 19%
of such transactions involved an ISDA-recognized SBS dealer and a U.S.-person non-SBS
dealer.
 368 Since the Commission is unable to pair up the same-day cleared trades, this 81% estimate
is based on bilateral trades that were not same-day cleared.
279
Figure 3
SOURCE: DTCC CDS – TIW. The fraction of notional volume in North American
corporate single-name CDS between (1) two U.S.-domiciled accounts, (2) one U.S.-domiciled
account and one non-U.S.-domiciled account, and (3) two non-U.S.-domiciled accounts,
computed from January 2008 through December 2020.
3. Distribution of transaction size
In proposing the definition of a block trade, the Commission has considered the
distribution of transaction size in the single-name CDS market, which the Commission believes
is representative of the market for SBS based on a single credit instrument (or issuer of credit
instruments) or a narrow-based index of credit instruments (or issuers of credit instruments).
369
 369 See proposed Rule 802(a). In considering a block trade definition, the Commission also
took into consideration that FINRA applies a $5 million cap when disseminating
transaction reports of economically similar cash debt securities. See supra Section
VII(E).
0%
10%
20%
30%
40%
50%
60%
Foreign-Foreign US-Foreign US-US
Registered office location Parent company domicile
Single Name CDS Transactions by Domicile
(% of notional volume, 2008 - 2020)
280
Table 3 reports the total number of newly initiated price-forming CDS transactions referencing
North American corporate single-name reference entities. The table also reports the number and
percentage of such transactions with a size (notional amount) of at least $5 million. These
statistics are reported for each year between 2011 and 2020 and for the entire ten-year period.
Overall, the number of newly initiated price-forming transactions exhibited a declining
trend between 2011 and 2020. The number of such transactions decreased from around 180,000
in 2011 to around 90,000 in 2019, with an uptick to around 127,000 transactions in 2020. The
number of newly initiated price-forming transactions with a notional size of at least $5 million
also exhibits a declining trend between 2011 and 2020, but without an uptick in 2020. As a
percentage of all newly initiated price-forming transactions, those with a notional size of at least
$5 million fell from 88% to 23% between 2011 and 2020.
Table 3. The distribution of North American Corporate Single-Name CDS Trade Sizes.
No. of transactions No. of transactions
with size of at least
$5 million
Percentage of
transactions with size
of at least $5 million
2011 180,700 159,061 88%
2012 165,479 121,151 73%
2013 130,570 87,515 67%
2014 127,410 80,122 63%
2015 107,698 53,991 50%
2016 97,459 37,273 38%
2017 80,513 33,695 42%
2018 88,787 34,840 39%
2019 89,823 34,811 39%
2020 127,379 29,354 23%
2011-2020 1,195,816 671,810 56%
4. Other markets and regulatory frameworks
The numerous financial markets are integrated, often attracting the same market
281
participants that trade across corporate bond, swap, and SBS markets, among others.370 This is
notwithstanding the fact that the SBS market is a small fraction of the swap market and the
single-name CDS market, which falls under SEC jurisdiction, is smaller than the index CDS
market, which falls under CFTC jurisdiction.371 For example, persons who register as SBS
dealers and major SBS participants are likely also to be engaged in swap activity. In part, this
overlap reflects the relationship between single-name CDS contracts, which are SBS, and index
CDS contracts, which may be swaps or SBS. A single-name CDS contract covers default events
for a single reference entity or reference security. Index CDS contracts and related products
make payouts contingent on the default of index components and allow participants in these
instruments to gain exposure to the credit risk of the basket of reference entities that comprise the
index, which is a function of the credit risk of the index components. A default event for a
reference entity that is an index component will result in payoffs on both single-name CDS
written on the reference entity and index CDS written on indices that contain the reference entity.
Because of this relationship between the payoffs of single-name CDS and index CDS products,
 370 See Rule 194 Proposing Release, 80 FR at 51711.
371 According to data published by BIS, as of December 2020, the global swap market
(comprising, for purposes of this discussion, IRS, foreign exchange swaps, multi-name
index CDS, and commodity swaps) had a global notional amount outstanding of
approximately $571 trillion, while the global SBS market (comprising, for purposes of
this discussion, single-name equity swaps and forwards and single-name CDS) had a
global notional amount outstanding of approximately $7.1 trillion. The global notional
amount outstanding in single-name CDS was approximately $3.5 trillion and in multiname index CDS was approximately $4.5 trillion. The Commission preliminarily
believes that the relative magnitudes presented by these statistics for the global OTC
derivatives market are also representative of the U.S. OTC derivatives markets. See
Table D5.2, BIS, supra note 345;Table D5.1, BIS, supra note 347. See also supra
Section XIX(B)(1).
282
the prices of these products depend upon one another,372 creating hedging opportunities across
these markets.
These hedging opportunities mean that participants that are active in one market are
likely to be active in the other. Commission staff analysis of approximately 4149 TIW accounts
that participated in the market for single-name CDS in 2020 revealed that approximately 3096 of
those accounts, or 75%, also participated in the market for index CDS. Of the accounts that
participated in both markets, data regarding transactions in 2020 suggest that, conditional on an
account transacting in notional volume of index CDS in the top third of accounts, the probability
of the same account landing in the top third of accounts in terms of single-name CDS notional
volume is approximately 61%; by contrast, the probability of the same account landing in the
bottom third of accounts in terms of single-name CDS notional volume is only 11%. As a result
of cross-market participation, informational efficiency, pricing and liquidity may spill over
across markets.373
Of the 44 registered SBS dealers, 41 are dually registered with the CFTC as swap dealers
and are therefore subject to CFTC requirements for entities registered with the CFTC as swap
 372 “Correlation” typically refers to linear relationships between variables; “dependence”
captures a broader set of relationships that may be more appropriate for certain swaps and
SBS. See, e.g., George Casella & Roger L. Berger, Statistical Inference 171 (2nd ed.
2002).
373 See Business Conduct Adopting Release, 81 FR at 30108; Christopher L. Culp, Andria
van der Merwe, & Bettina J. Starkle, Single-name Credit Default Swaps: A Review of the
Empirical Academic Literature 71-85 (ISDA Study, September 2016), available at
https://www.isda.org/a/KSiDE/single-name-cdsliterature-review-culp-van-der-merwestaerkleisda.pdf; Patrick Augustin, Marti G. Subrahmanyam, Dragon Y. Tang, & Sarah
Q. Wang, Credit Default Swaps: Past, Present, and Future, 8 Ann. Rev. Fin. Econ. 175
(2016).
283
dealers. Further, of the 44 registered SBS dealers, 27 have a prudential regulator.
5. Number of entities that likely will register as SBSEFs
Entities that will seek to register with the Commission as SBSEFs are likely to be SEFs
that are active in the index CDS market. Currently, 20 SEFs have permanent or temporary
registration with the CFTC.
374 Of these SEFs, eight list index CDS for trading.375 If these SEFs
were to list single-name CDS or other SBS for trading, they would be required to register as
SBSEFs with the Commission. In 2021, index CDS volume on U.S. SEFs was distributed as
follows: one SEF had the largest share of index CDS volume (in notional amount) at $8 trillion
(69%); one SEF had the second largest share at $2.1 trillion (18%); and the remaining 13% of
 374 See CFTC, supra note 17.
375 For purposes of this discussion, options on index CDS and index CDS tranches are
included as part of index CDS. For SEFs that list index CDS for trading, see BGC SEF
Contract Specifications (January 21, 2022), available at http://www.bgcsef.com/wpcontent/uploads/2022/01/BGC-SEF-Contract-Specifications_01-21-22.pdf; Bloomberg
SEF LLC Rulebook (February 24, 2022), available at
https://assets.bbhub.io/professional/sites/10/BSEF-Rulebook.pdf; GFI Swaps Exchange:
Products & Contract Specifications, GFI GROUP, available at
http://www.gfigroup.com/markets/gfi-sef/products/; ICE Swap Trade, LLC, Swap
Execution Facility Rulebook Version: 2.38 (effective December 15, 2021), available at
https://www.theice.com/publicdocs/swap_trade/Rulebook.pdf; Letter from Ron Steinfeld,
CCO, MarketAxess SEF Corp., to CFTC regarding Listing Products for Trading by
Certification Pursuant to CFTC Rule 40.2 (January 13, 2015), available at
https://content.marketaxess.com/sites/default/files/marketaxess-sef-product-listing-filingand-appendices-january-13-2015.pdf; TW SEF LLC, Swap Execution Facility Rules
(effective October 1, 2021), available at
https://www.tradeweb.com/4a7851/globalassets/our-businesses/market-regulation/sefrulebook-oct-1-2021/tw-sef-rulebook_9.17.21.pdf; Category: Rulebook, TRADITION SEF,
available at https://www.traditionsef.com/regulatory/filter/rulebook/all/all; tpSEF Inc.
rulebook, tpSEF Inc., tpSEF Inc. Rulebook Appendix B: tpSEF Inc. Swap Specifications
(effective July 2, 2021), available at
https://www.tullettprebon.com/swap_execution_facility/documents/tpSEF%20-
%20Rulebook%20-%20Appendix%20B%20-%20Swap%20Specifications.pdf?20211031.
284
volume was shared among the other five SEFs.376 The Commission preliminarily believes that
the number of SBSEF registrants most likely falls between two and eight, but acknowledges
uncertainty around the upper end of this estimate. The Commission preliminarily believes that
the likely number of SBSEF registrants would be five. The Commission invites commenters to
provide feedback on the number of entities that will register as SBSEFs.
6. SBS trading on platforms
By analyzing SBS transactions reported to registered SDRs,377 the Commission has
obtained a preliminarily estimate of the extent of SBS trading on platforms. Of the new
transactions in credit SBS executed between November 8, 2021 and February 28, 2022, 6,131
were executed on platforms (2% of all new transactions in credit SBS transactions). During the
same period, 44 new transactions in equity SBS were executed on platforms (less than 0.01% of
all new transactions in equity SBS transactions), while no new transactions in interest rate SBS
were executed on platforms. These observations suggest that the vast majority of SBS trading
continues to be conducted bilaterally in the OTC market. The Commission invites commenters
to provide feedback on the extent of SBS trading on platforms.
The Commission preliminarily identifies 11 platforms on which new SBS transactions
were executed between November 8, 2021 and February 28, 2022. Of these 11 platforms, ten are
foreign SBS trading venues and one is a U.S. SBS trading venue that is affiliated with a CFTCregistered SEF. Of the new transactions in credit SBS executed between November 8, 2021 and
 376 Index CDS volume traded on SEFs is from Futures Industry Association’s SEF Tracker.
See SEF Tracker Historical Volume, FIA, available at https://www.fia.org/monthlyvolume.
377 Beginning on November 8, 2021, market participants were required to report SBS
transactions to registered SDRs pursuant to Regulation SBSR.
285
February 28, 2022, 2,126 were executed on non-U.S. platforms and involved at least one
counterparty that is a U.S. person or a non-U.S. person whose performance under the SBS is
guaranteed by a U.S. person (0.7% of all new transactions in credit SBS transactions). During
the same period, 30 new transactions in equity SBS were executed on a non-U.S. platform and
involved at least one counterparty that is a U.S. person or a non-U.S. person whose performance
under the SBS is guaranteed by a U.S. person (less than 0.01% of all new transactions in equity
SBS transactions).
7. Global regulatory efforts
In 2009, the G20 leaders—whose membership includes the United States, 18 other
countries, and the European Union—addressed global improvements in the OTC derivatives
market. They expressed their view on a variety of issues relating to OTC derivatives contracts.378
In subsequent summits, the G20 leaders have returned to OTC derivatives regulatory reform and
encouraged international consultation in developing standards for these markets.379
Foreign legislative and regulatory efforts have generally focused on five areas:
(1) moving standardized OTC derivatives onto organized trading platforms; (2) requiring central
clearing of OTC derivatives;380 (3) requiring post-trade reporting of transaction data to trade
repositories; (4) establishing or enhancing capital requirements for non-centrally cleared OTC
derivatives transactions; and (5) establishing or enhancing margin and other risk mitigation
 378 See G20, Leaders’ Statement: The Pittsburgh Summit (September 24-25, 2009) at
paragraph 13.
379 See, e.g., G20, Toronto Summit Declaration (June 27, 2010) at Annex II paragraph 25;
Cannes Summit Final Declaration–Building Our Common Future: Renewed Collective
Action for the Benefit of All (November 4, 2011) at paragraph 24.
380 See supra note 94.
286
requirements for non-centrally-cleared OTC derivatives transactions. The rules being proposed
in this release concern the registration and regulation of SBSEFs, a type of organized trading
platform.
As of the end of 2021, platform trading requirements were in force in 12 foreign
jurisdictions while seven jurisdictions were in the process of proposing legislation or rules to
implement platform trading requirements.381 Seven foreign jurisdictions have made
determinations with respect to the specific OTC derivatives that are required to be traded on
platforms.382
8. Trading models
Unlike the markets for cash equity securities and listed options, the market for SBS
currently is characterized by bilateral negotiation in the OTC swap market; is largely
decentralized; has many non-standardized instruments; and has many SBS that are not centrally
 381 Apart from the 12 foreign jurisdictions, the United States is considered to have platform
trading requirements in place based on the CFTC’s implementation of platform trading
requirements. See FSB, OTC Derivatives Market Reforms: Implementation Progress in
2021 Tables 1 & K (December 3, 2021), available at: https://www.fsb.org/2021/12/otcderivatives-market-reforms-implementation-progress-in-2021/ (describing progress made
towards implementing platform trading requirements in 2021); FSB, OTC Derivatives
Market Reforms: 2019 Progress Report on Implementation Table A (October 15, 2019),
available at: https://www.fsb.org/2019/10/otc-derivatives-market-reforms-2019-
progress-report-on-implementation/ (discussing the CFTC’s implementation of platform
trading requirements).
382 These jurisdictions are China (bond forwards; certain currency forwards, options, and
swaps); the European Union (certain index CDS; certain IRS denominated in Euro, U.S.
dollar, and British pound); India (certain overnight index swaps); Indonesia (equity and
commodity derivative products); Japan (selected Yen-denominated IRS); Mexico (certain
Peso-denominated IRS); and Singapore (certain IRS denominated in Euro, US dollar, and
British pound). See FSB, 2019 Progress Report, supra note 381, Table R. In its 2021
report, see supra note 381, the FSB noted no change in status in the implementation of
platform trading requirements, including platform trading determinations, since its 2019
report.
287
cleared. The lack of uniform rules concerning the trading of SBS and the one-to-one nature of
trade negotiation in SBS has resulted in different models for the trading of these securities,
ranging from bilateral negotiations carried out over the telephone, to RFQ systems (e.g., singledealer and multi-dealer RFQ platforms) and central limit order books outside the United States,
as more fully described below. The use of electronic media to execute transactions in SBS varies
greatly across trading models, with some models being highly electronic whereas others rely
almost exclusively on non-electronic means such as the telephone. The reasons for use of, or
lack of use of, electronic media vary from such factors as user preference to limitations in the
existing infrastructure of certain trading platforms. The description below of the ways in which
SBS may be traded is based in part on discussions with market participants. The Commission
solicits comments on the accuracy of this description.
The Commission uses the term “bilateral negotiation” to refer to the model whereby one
party uses the telephone, email, or other communications to contact directly a potential
counterparty to negotiate an SBS transaction. Once the terms are agreed, the SBS transaction is
executed and the terms are memorialized.383 In a bilateral negotiation, there might be no pretrade or post-trade transparency available to the market place because only the two parties to the
transaction are aware of the terms of the negotiation and the final terms of the agreement.
Further, no terms of the proposed transaction are firm until the transaction is executed.
However, reputational costs generally serve as a deterrent to either party’s failing to honor any
quoted terms. Dealer-to-customer bilateral negotiation currently is used for all SBS asset classes,
and particularly for trading in less liquid SBS, in situations where the parties prefer a privately
 383 See, e.g., Trade Acknowledgement and Verification Adopting Release, 81 FR at 39809.
288
negotiated transaction, such as for a large notional transaction, or in other circumstances in
which it is not cost-effective for a party to the trade to use one of the execution methods
described below.
Another model for the trading of SBS is the RFQ system. An RFQ system typically
allows market participants to obtain quotes for a particular SBS by simultaneously sending
messages to one or more potential respondents (SBS dealers).
384 The initiating participant is
typically required to provide information related to the request in a message, which may include
the name of the initiating participant, SBS identifier, side, and size. SBS dealers that observe the
initiating participant’s request have the option to respond to the request with a price quote.385
These respondents are often, though not always, pre-selected. The initiating participant can then
select among the respondents by either accepting one of multiple responses or rejecting all
responses, usually within a “good for” time period. After the initiating participant and a
respondent agree on the terms of the trade, the trade will then proceed to post-trade processing.
RFQ systems provide a certain degree of pre-trade transparency in that the initiating
participant can observe the quotes it receives (if any) in response to its RFQ. The number of
quotes received depends, in part, on the number of respondents that are invited to participate in
the RFQ. As the Commission discussed elsewhere, several factors may influence the number of
 384 See Lynn Riggs, Esen Onur, David Reiffen, and Haoxiang Zhu, Swap Trading After
Dodd-Frank: Evidence from Index CDS, 137 J. Financial Economics 857 (2020) (finding
that, in the index CDS market, an initiating participant is more likely to send RFQs to its
relationship dealers, i.e., its clearing members or dealers with whom it has traded more
actively in the recent past).
385 See id. (finding that, in the index CDS market, a dealer’s response rate to an RFQ
declines with the number of dealers included in the RFQ).
289
respondents that are invited to participate in an RFQ.386 First, the RFQ system itself may limit
the total number of respondents that can be selected for a single RFQ, typically to five
counterparties. This limitation may encourage SBS dealers to respond to RFQs, since it reduces
the number of other SBS dealers they would compete with in any give request session. Second,
the initiating participant may have an incentive to limit the degree of information leakage. If
the trade the initiating participant is seeking to complete with the help of the RFQ is not
completely filled in that one session, and other participants know this, quotes the initiating
participant receives elsewhere may be affected, including in subsequent RFQ sessions. Third,
respondents and initiators both have an incentive to limit price impact because of the expense it
will add to the offsetting trade that must follow. Specifically, an SBS dealer who takes a
position to fill a customer order through an RFQ will often subsequently offset that position in
the interdealer market. If a large number of SBS dealers are invited to participate in an RFQ, this
would lead to widespread knowledge that the SBS dealer with the winning bid will now try to
offset that position, which could impact the prices available to that dealer in the interdealer
market.
A third model for the trading of SBS is a limit order book system or similar system,
which the Commission understands is not yet in operation for the trading of SBS in the United
States but exists for the trading of SBS in Europe. Today, securities and futures exchanges in the
 386 See Amendments to Exchange Act Rule 3b-16 Regarding the Definition of “Exchange”;
Regulation ATS for ATSs That Trade U.S. Government Securities, NMS Stocks, and Other
Securities; Regulation SCI for ATSs That Trade U.S. Treasury Securities and Agency
Securities SEA Release No. 94062 (January 26, 2022), 87 FR 15496 (March 18, 2022)
(“ATS-G Proposal”), Section VIII(B)(1)(a) therein.
290
United States display a limit order book in which firm bids and offers are posted for all
participants to see, with the identity of the parties withheld until a transaction occurs.387 Bids and
offers are then matched based on price-time priority or other established parameters and trades
are executed accordingly. The quotes on a limit order book system are firm. In general, a limit
order book system also provides greater pre-trade transparency than the two models described
above, because participants can view bids and offers before placing their bids and offers.
However, broadly communicating trading interest, particularly about a large trade, might
increase hedging costs, and thus costs to investors, as reflected in the prices from the SBS
dealers. The system can also provide post-trade transparency, to the extent that participants can
see the terms of executed transactions.
The three models described above represent broadly the types of trading of SBS in the
OTC market today. These examples may not represent every method in existence today, but the
discussion above is intended to give an overview of the models without providing the nuances of
each particular type.
C. Benefits, costs, and reasonable alternatives
This section discusses the benefits and costs of the proposal. The section also discusses a
number of alternatives that the Commission considered when formulating the proposed rules and
amendments.
 387 Under CFTC rules applicable to the swap market, § 37.9(f) prohibits the practice of posttrade name give-up for swaps that are executed, pre-arranged, or pre-negotiated
anonymously on or pursuant to the rules of a SEF and intended to be cleared, subject to
an exception related to certain package transactions. See supra Section VII(E)
(discussing proposed Rule 815).
291
The Commission’s consideration of the benefits and costs of the proposal takes into
account the connection between the trade execution requirement and the mandatory clearing
requirement mandated by Congress. The Dodd-Frank Act amends the SEA to require, among
other things, the following with respect to SBS transactions: (1) transactions in SBS must be
cleared through a clearing agency if they are required to be cleared;388 and (2) if the SBS is
subject to the clearing requirement, the transaction must be executed on an exchange or on an
SBSEF registered under Section 3D of the SEA or an SBSEF exempt from registration under
Section 3D(e) of the SEA, unless no SBSEF or exchange makes such SBS available for trading
or the SBS is subject to the clearing exception in Section 3C(g) of the SEA.389 The benefits and
costs associated with the trade execution requirement would not materialize unless and until the
Commission makes mandatory clearing determinations, i.e., determining what SBS transactions
must be cleared by a clearing agency.
The Commission preliminarily believes that the general approach to proposing
requirements relating to SBS execution could mitigate costs associated with the proposal. As
discussed in Section III, the Commission’s approach is to harmonize as closely as practicable
with analogous CFTC rules for SEFs, unless a reason exists to do otherwise in a particular area.
Based on the Commission’s preliminarily belief that SBSEF registrants likely would be
registered SEFs that have established systems and policies and procedures to comply with CFTC
 388 See Pub. L. No. 111-203, § 763(a) (adding Section 3C(a)(1) of the SEA).
389 See Pub. L. No. 111-203, § 763(a) (adding Section 3C(h) of the SEA). See also Pub. L.
No. 111-203, § 761(a) (adding Section 3(a)(77) of the SEA to define the term “securitybased swap execution facility”).
292
rules, the Commission’s general approach likely would result in compliance costs for registered
SBSEFs that are lower than compliance costs that would have resulted had the Commission
chosen not to follow the CFTC’s approach.390
In assessing the economic impact of the proposed rules, the Commission considers the
broader costs and benefits associated with the application of the proposed rules, including the
costs and benefits of applying the substantive Title VII requirements to the trading of SBS.
391
The Commission’s analysis also considers “assessment” costs—i.e., those that arise from current
and future market participants expending resources to assess how they will be affected by
Regulation SE, and could incur expenses in making this assessment even if they ultimately are
not subject to rules for which they made an assessment.
Many of the benefits and costs discussed below are difficult to quantify. These benefits
and costs would depend on how potential SBSEFs and their prospective members respond to the
proposed rules, if adopted by the Commission. If potential SBSEFs perceive the costs associated
with operating registered SBSEFs to be high, such that few or no entities come forward to
register as SBSEFs, there could be no triggering of the trade execution requirement, which
depends on MAT determinations made by registered SBSEFs (or exchanges). Under this
scenario, the future state of the SBS market likely would not differ from the current baseline and
 390 In Section XX infra, for purposes of the PRA, the Commission preliminarily estimates
burdens applicable to a stand-alone SBSEF. However, the Commission preliminarily
believes that most if not all SBSEFs will be dually registered with the CFTC as SEFs,
and thus will already be complying with relevant CFTC rules that have analogs to rules
contained within proposed Regulation SE. Therefore, the Commission’s burden
estimates may be larger for stand-alone SBSEF than may exist in practice, considering
the effect of overlapping CFTC rules.
391 In certain prior Title VII releases, the Commission had referred to such costs and benefits
as programmatic costs and benefits. See, e.g., Regulation SBSR Adopting Release I.
293
the potential costs and benefits discussed below would not materialize. An alternative scenario
is that prospective SBSEFs perceive the costs associated with operating registered SBSEFs to be
high but nevertheless register as SBSEFs because they expect to be able to pass on such costs to
their members to help maintain the commercial viability of operating a registered SBSEF. MAT
determinations by registered SBSEFs would move trading of the products covered by the
determinations onto SBSEFs, which could generate benefits and costs associated with increased
pre-trade transparency, in addition to benefits and costs associated with the operation of
regulated markets. A third possibility is that entities come forward to register as SBSEFs
because they perceive the associated costs of operating SBSEFs to be low in light of the close
harmonization of the proposed rules with analogous CFTC SEF rules. If these registered
SBSEFs do not make MAT determinations and thus do not trigger the trade execution
requirement, the benefits and costs associated with increased pre-trade transparency likely would
not arise. If SBSEF trading is limited because of an absence of MAT determinations, the
benefits and costs associated with the operation of regulated markets potentially would be
limited as well. A fourth possibility is that entities do come forward to register as SBSEFs
because they perceive the associated costs of operating SBSEFs to be low and these registered
SBSEFs make MAT determinations and trigger the trade execution requirement. Under this
scenario, the benefits and costs associated with increased pre-trade transparency and regulated
markets likely would arise. The Commission does not have the data to determine which of the
above possibilities will prevail should the proposed rules be adopted.
The Commission has attempted to quantify economic effects where possible, but much of
the discussion of economic effects is necessarily qualitative. The Commission requests comment
and, with regard to any comments, such comments are of greatest assistance if they are
294
accompanied by supporting data and analysis of the issues addressed.
1. Overarching benefits of the proposal
Broadly, the Commission anticipates that proposed Regulation SE may bring several
overarching benefits to the SBS market.
Improved Transparency. The proposal would enable the Commission to obtain
information about SBSEFs, thereby facilitating the Commission’s oversight of these entities.
392
In addition, the proposed requirements relating to pre-trade transparency would increase
pre-trade transparency in the market for SBS.
393 Increased pre-trade price transparency should
allow an increased number of market participants to better see the trading interest of other
market participants prior to trading, which should lead to increased price competition among
market participants.394 The Commission preliminarily believes that the proposed requirements
with respect to pre-trade price transparency should lead to more efficient pricing in the SBS
 392 For example, proposed Rule 826 would, among other things, require an SBSEF to
maintain records of its business activities (including a complete audit trail) for a period of
five years and report to the Commission such information as the Commission determines
to be necessary or appropriate for performing the duties of the Commission under the
SEA. See also the discussion below on how the proposal would provide the means for
the Commission to gain better insight into and oversight of SBSEFs and the SBS market.
393 Proposed Rules 803(a)(2) and (3) would require an SBSEF to offer, at a minimum, an
order book for SBS trading, subject to certain exceptions related to package transactions.
Proposed Rule 815 would require SBS transactions subject to the trade execution
requirement to be executed using either an order book or via an RFQ-to-3 system.
Proposed Rule 816 would set forth the process by which an SBSEF would subject an
SBS to the trade execution requirement. Proposed Rule 832 would describe those crossborder SBS transactions that would be subject to the trade execution requirement.
394 See, e.g., Ananth Madhavan, Market Microstructure: A Practitioner’s Guide, Fin.
Analysts J., Vol. 58, at 38 (2002) (nondisclosure of pre-trade price information benefits
dealers by reducing price competition).
295
market.395
Evidence from the swap market suggests that an increase in pre-trade transparency is
associated with improved liquidity and reduced transaction costs.396 The Commission is not
aware of any difference between the swap market and the SBS market that would cause the
empirical findings regarding the impact of pre-trade price transparency on liquidity and
transaction costs not to carry over into the SBS market, when implemented. The Commission is
mindful that, under certain circumstances, pre-trade price transparency could also discourage the
provision of liquidity by some market participants.
397 However, the Commission preliminarily
believes that by proposing two execution methods for Required Transactions (limit order book
and RFQ-to-3), market participants have flexibility in the degree of pre-trade transparency they
wish to employ, which should attenuate potential concerns associated with the exposure of pretrade trading interest.
 395 See, e.g., Ekkehart Boehmer, et al., Lifting the Veil: An Analysis of Pre-trade
Transparency at the NYSE, J. Fin., Vol. LX (2005) (greater pre-trade price transparency
leads to more efficient pricing).
396 See Evangelos Benos, Richard Payne, and Michalis Vasios, Centralized Trading,
Transparency, and Interest Rate Swap Market Liquidity: Evidence from the
Implementation of the Dodd-Frank Act, 55 J. Fin. and Quantitative Analysis 159 (2020)
(finding, among other things, that imposition of the CFTC’s trade execution requirement
improved the liquidity of IRS that were subject to the requirement, and that the liquidity
improvement was associated with more intense competition between swap dealers); Y.C.
Loon and Zhaodong (Ken) Zhong, Does Dodd-Frank Affect OTC Transaction Costs and
Liquidity? Evidence from Real-Time CDS Trade Reports, 119 J. Fin. Econ. 645 (2016)
(finding that index CDS transactions executed on SEFs have lower transaction costs and
improved liquidity than index CDS transactions executed bilaterally).
397 See, e.g., Ananth Madhavan, et al., Should Securities Markets Be Transparent?, J. of Fin.
Markets, Vol. 8 (2005) (finding that an increase in pre-trade price transparency leads to
lower liquidity and higher execution costs, because limit-order traders are reluctant to
submit orders given that their orders essentially represent free options to other traders).
296
Improved oversight of trading. Regulation SE would require, among other things, that
SBSEFs maintain an audit trail and automated trade surveillance system; conduct real-time
market monitoring; establish and enforce rules for information collection; and comply with
reporting and recordkeeping requirements.398 These requirements are designed to provide an
SBSEF with sufficient information to oversee trading on its market, including detecting and
deterring abusive trading practices.
This framework could enhance investor protection and increase confidence in a wellregulated market among SBS market participants, which could in turn make them more willing
to increase their participation or entice new participants. An increase in participation in the SBS
market would, all else being equal, benefit the SBS market as a whole. Further, to the extent that
market participants utilize SBS to better manage their risk with respect to a position in
underlying securities or assets, their participation in the SBS market could impact their
willingness to participate in the underlying asset markets. Thus, the Commission preliminarily
believes that the proposal could benefit the securities markets overall by encouraging a more
efficient, and potentially higher, level of capital investment.
Improved access and competition. Currently, the SBS market is dominated by a small
group of SBS dealers.399 A mandatory clearing determination by the Commission, followed by a
MAT determination by one or more SBSEFs or exchanges, should help foster greater
competition in the trading of SBS by promoting greater order interaction and increasing access
to and participation on SBSEFs. The proposed rules would provide a framework for allowing a
 398 See proposed Rules 819, 821, 822, and 826.
399 See supra Section XIX(B)(2).
297
number of trading venues to register as SBSEFs and thus more effectively compete for business
in SBS. Furthermore, proposed Rule 827 is designed to promote competition generally by
prohibiting an SBSEF from adopting any rules or taking any actions that unreasonably restrain
trade, or imposing any material anticompetitive burden on trading or clearing. In addition,
proposed Rule 819(c) would, among other things, require an SBSEF to provide any ECP with
impartial access to its market(s) and market services.
The proposed new rules and amendments to the Commission’s Rules of Practice would
allow persons who are aggrieved by a final disciplinary action, a final action with respect to a
denial or conditioning of membership, or a final action with respect to a denial or limitation of
access by an SBSEF to seek an application for review by the Commission.400 These proposed
rules and amendments are designed to improve access to SBSEFs by creating a procedure for
making appeals to the Commission, thereby limiting the ability of an SBSEF to make a
disciplinary action, denial or conditioning of membership, or denial or limitation of access
without any recourse by the affected party. Taken together, these proposed rules and
amendments should foster greater access to SBSEFs by SBS market participants, which in turn
could promote greater participation by liquidity providers on SBSEFs. Increased participation
could increase competition in liquidity provision and lower trading costs, which may lead to
increased participation in the SBS market.
Improved Commission oversight. One of the goals of the Dodd-Frank Act is to increase
 400 See proposed Rules 442 and 443; proposed amendments to Rules 101, 202, 210, 401,
450, and 460.
298
regulatory oversight of SBS trading relative to the existing OTC SBS market.
401 The proposal
would provide the means for the Commission to gain better insight into and oversight of SBSEFs
and the SBS market by, among other things, allowing the Commission to review new rules, rule
amendments, and product listings by SBSEFs402 and to obtain other relevant information from
SBSEFs.403
Additionally, proposed Rule 826(b) would require every SBSEF to keep full, complete,
and systematic records of all activities relating to its business with respect to SBS. In addition,
proposed Rule 819(f) would require an SBSEF to capture and retain a full audit trail of activity
on its facility. The records required to be kept by an SBSEF would help the Commission to
determine whether an SBSEF is operating in compliance with the SEA and the Commission’s
rules thereunder. The audit trail data required to be captured and retained would facilitate the
ability of the SBSEF and the Commission to carry out their respective obligations under the
SEA, by facilitating the detection of abusive or manipulative trading activity, allowing
reconstructions of activity on the SBSEF, and generally understanding the causes of both
specific trading events and general market activity.
Furthermore, proposed Rule 835 would require an SBSEF to provide the Commission
notice of a final disciplinary action, a final action with respect to a denial or conditioning of
membership, or a final action with respect to a denial or limitation of access, which would allow
the Commission to review the SBSEF’s disciplinary process and exercise of its regulatory
powers, providing the Commission an additional tool to carry out its oversight responsibilities.

401 See Pub. L. No. 111-203, Preamble.
402 See proposed Rules 804, 805, 806, and 807.
403 See proposed Rule 811.
299
The proposed registration requirements and related proposed Form SBSEF, and the CCO’s
annual compliance report, which are further discussed below, would also help the Commission
with its oversight responsibilities.
Improved automation. To comply with the requirements of proposed Regulation SE
relating to recordkeeping and surveillance, an SBSEF potentially would need to invest in and
develop automated technology systems to store, monitor, and communicate a variety of trading
data, including orders, RFQs, RFQ responses, and quotations.404 The proposed rules should
promote increased automation in the SBS market, although CFTC-registered SEFs that plan to
register as SBSEFs are already deploying automated systems that could be supplemented to
support an SBS business. In addition, the automation and systems development associated with
the regulation of SBSEFs could provide SBS market participants with new platforms and tools to
execute and process transactions in SBS at a lower expense per transaction. Such increased
efficiency could enable members of the SBSEF to handle increased volumes of SBS with greater
efficiency.
2. Benefits associated with specific proposed rules
In addition to the broad benefits that the Commission anticipates as a result of proposed
Regulation SE, individual rules could bring particular benefits to the SBS market. These include
the following:
Registration requirements and Form SBSEF. SBSEF registration is required under the
Dodd-Frank Act.405 Proposed Rule 818(a) incorporates the requirement under the Dodd-Frank
 404 See proposed Rules 819(d)(4) and 826.
405 See Section 3D(a)(1) of the SEA, 15 U.S.C. 78c-4(a)(1).
300
Act that an SBSEF, in order to be registered and maintain registration, must comply with the
Core Principles in Section 3D(d) of the SEA and the Commission’s rules thereunder. The
registration process described in proposed Rule 803 would implement this statutory requirement
and assist the Commission in overseeing and regulating the SBS market. The information to be
provided on proposed Form SBSEF is designed to enable the Commission to assess whether an
applicant has the capacity and the means to perform the duties of an SBSEF and to comply with
the Core Principles and other requirements imposed on SBSEFs. Proposed Rule 803 is closely
modelled on analogous CFTC registration requirements for SEFs. The choice to align the
Commission’s registration requirements for SBSEFs with the CFTC’s requirements for SEFs is
designed to achieve the abovementioned benefits while imposing only marginal costs on SBSEF
registrants, who likely are SEFs.
Proposed exemptions (proposed Rule 833, proposed Rule 816(e), proposed amendments
to Rule 3a1-1, and proposed Rule 15a-12). Proposed Rule 833 is designed to preserve access to
foreign markets by “covered persons” (as defined in proposed Rule 832). As discussed in
Section XIX(B)(6), an analysis of SBS transaction data indicates that certain trades executed on
foreign SBS trading venues involve at least one counterparty that is a covered person. Absent
the proposed rule, these trading venues might elect to avoid having members that are covered
persons if those venues do not wish to register with the Commission in some capacity (such as an
exchange or SBSEF). In addition, covered persons would not be permitted to execute SBS that
are subject to the trade execution requirement on these venues if the venues do not register with
the Commission in some capacity (such as an exchange or SBSEF) or obtain an appropriate
exemption. This would limit access to foreign SBS trading venues by covered persons,
potentially making it harder for them to locate counterparties and obtain liquidity for SBS that
301
trade on those venues. This in turn could increase their trading costs, because they might spend
more time and effort to locate counterparties or because they have less bargaining power relative
to the remaining pool of potential counterparties with which they could trade. To the extent that
a foreign SBS trading venue can obtain a Rule 833(a) exemption, it could continue to provide
members that are covered persons with access to and liquidity on its market. Furthermore, a
Rule 833(b) exemption would allow covered persons to continue accessing foreign SBS trading
venues to execute SBS that are subject to the SEA’s trade execution requirement.
Currently, all trading venues that trade SBS—whether domestic or foreign—are exempt
from having to register as a national securities exchange or SBSEF on account of the SBS
trading business. This exemption expires when the Commission’s rules for registering and
regulating SBSEFs come into force.406 Thus, removal of the existing exemption would merely
restore the status quo ante, where the SEA itself, as amended by the Dodd-Frank Act, requires
entities meeting the definition of “security-based swap execution facility” or “exchange” and
falling within the territorial jurisdiction of the SEA to register with the Commission. By offering
foreign SBS trading venues the possibility of an exemption from the definitions of “securitybased swap execution facility” and “exchange” as well as from Section 3D(a)(1) of the SEA,
proposed Rule 833(a) would allow foreign SBS trading venues to operate in conditions similar to
the current baseline (if the Commission ultimately grants an exemption under Rule 833(a)).
Currently, market participants that trade SBS that would be covered by proposed Rule
 406 See supra Section V, note 43.
302
816(e)407 do not trade these products on registered exchanges or registered SBSEFs. Proposed
Rule 816(e), by providing exemptions from the trade execution requirement for these SBS,
would preserve the status quo for these SBS.
Proposed paragraph (a)(4) of Rule 3a1-1 would provide that an entity that has registered
with the Commission as an SBSEF and provides a market place for no securities other than SBS
would not fall within the definition of “exchange” and thus would not be subject to the
requirement in Section 5 of the SEA to register as a national securities exchange (or obtain a
low-volume exemption). The Commission preliminarily believes that the benefit of the proposed
amendment would be to clarify to prospective SBSEF applicants that, if they register with the
Commission as SBSEFs, they would not face duplicative registration and regulatory
requirements as exchanges. In addition, proposed paragraph (a)(5) of Rule 3a1-1 would codify a
series of exemptions that the Commission has granted over several years to SBS clearing
agencies that operate “forced trading” sessions. Because the proposed amendment is intended to
codify existing exemptions, the Commission preliminarily believes that any associated economic
effects would be minimal.
Proposed new Rule 15a-12 is designed to minimize overlapping compliance burdens for
SBSEFs, which are also brokers under the SEA, that restrict their activity to engaging in the
business of operating an SBSEF (and no other broker activities). Absent the proposed rule, such
 407 Proposed paragraphs (e)(1), (e)(2) and (e)(3) of Rule 816 would exempt from the trade
execution requirement, respectively: an SBS transaction that is executed as a component
of a package transaction that also includes a component transaction that is the issuance of
a bond in a primary market; an SBS that qualifies for an exception under Section 3C(g) of
the SEA or any exemption from the clearing requirement that is granted by the
Commission, for which the associated requirements are met; and an SBS transaction that
is executed between counterparties that qualify as “eligible affiliate counterparties.”
303
SBSEFs (defined as “SBSEF-Bs” for purposes of Rule 15a-12) would need to register as
SBSEFs and be subject to the SBSEF regulatory regime, in addition to registering as brokers and
being subject to the broker regulatory regime. Proposed Rule 15a-12 would allow an SBSEF-B
to satisfy the requirement to register as a broker by registering as an SBSEF under proposed Rule
803, and would exempt an SBSEF-B from SIPA and other broker requirements, except for
Sections 15(b)(4), 15(b)(6), and 17(b) of the SEA. As a result of the proposed rule, SBSEF-Bs
could avoid incurring what the Commission preliminarily believes to be duplicative and
unnecessary compliance burdens. Each SBSEF-B could save an estimated $324,849 in initial
broker registration costs408 and $59,063 in annual ongoing costs of meeting broker registration
requirements.409 In deriving these estimates, the Commission assumes that the activities an
SBSEF-B performs to register and maintain registration as a broker do not overlap with those
that it performs to register and maintain registration as an SBSEF-B. If there is an overlap in
such activities, the estimated cost savings could be smaller. Each SBSEF-B could save an
estimated $823 in ongoing costs associated with satisfying broker minimum capital
 408 The Commission previously estimated that an entity would incur costs of $301,400 to
register as a broker-dealer and become a member of a national securities association. See
Cross-Border Amendments Adopting Release, 85 FR at 6312. Adjusted for inflation
through December 2021, these costs are $324,849.
409 The Commission previously estimated that an entity would incur ongoing annual costs of
$54,800 to maintain broker-dealer registration and membership of a national securities
association. See Cross-Border Amendments Adopting Release, 85 FR 6312. Adjusted
for inflation through December 2021, these costs are $59,063. The estimation of ongoing
annual costs is based on the assumption that the entity would use existing staff to perform
the functions of the registered broker-dealer and would not incur incremental costs to hire
new staff. To the extent that the entity chooses to hire new staff, the ongoing annual
costs would likely be higher.
304
requirements.410 The estimated aggregate initial and annual ongoing savings are $1,624,245 and
$299,430, respectively.411
Rule and product filings. Proposed Rules 806 and 807 would set forth alternative filing
processes for a new rule or rule amendment of a registered SBSEF, and proposed Rules 804 and
805 would set forth alternative filing processes for an SBSEF to file an SBS product that it
wishes to list. Proposed Rule 810 would address new product filings by an entity that has
applied for SBSEF registration but has not yet been registered, or by a dormant SBSEF seeking
reinstatement of its registration. The self-certification processes of Rules 804 and 807 would
require SBSEFs to include a certification that the product, rule, or rule amendment, as the case
may be, complies with the SEA and Commission rules thereunder.412 The information to be
provided by the SBSEF under proposed Rules 804, 805, and 810 would further the ability of the
Commission to obtain information regarding SBS that an SBSEF intends to list on its market.
The proposed rules would assist the Commission in overseeing and regulating the trading of SBS
and to help ensure that SBSEFs operate in compliance with the SEA.
 410 The Commission preliminarily believes that, absent the proposed rule, an SBSEF-B
would comply with the minimum net capital requirement of $5,000 for a registered
broker-dealer because it would not receive, owe, or hold customer funds or securities;
carry customer accounts; and engage in certain other activities. See Rule 15c3-1(a)(2)(vi)
under the SEA, 17 CFR 240.15c3-1(a)(2)(vi). The Commission preliminarily estimates
the cost of capital using the annual stock returns on a value-weighted portfolio of
financial stocks from 1986 to 2021 (see website of Professor Ken French, available at:
http://mba.tuck.dartmouth.edu/pages/faculty/ken.french/ftp/48_Industry_Portfolios_CSV.
zip (accessed on March 14, 2022). These returns were averaged to arrive at an estimate
of 16.45%. The cost of capital = 16.45% x $5,000 = $823.
411 The Commission preliminarily estimates the number of SBSEF-Bs as the number of
entities that likely will register as SBSEFs. See supra Section XIX(B)(5). Aggregate
initial savings = $324,849 x 5 (number of SBSEF-Bs) = $1,624,245. Aggregate annual
ongoing savings = ($59,063 + $823) x 5 (number of SBSEFs) = $299,430.
412 See proposed Rules 804(a)(3)(iv) and 807(a)(6)(iv) .
305
In addition, proposed Rule 806(a)(5), which would require an SBSEF to explain the
anticipated benefits and potential anticompetitive effects on market participants of a proposed
new rule or rule amendment potentially could help foster a competitive SBS market because it
could prompt SBSEFs to consider the positive as well as negative aspects of their proposed rules
or rule amendments. Proposed Rule 808 is designed to facilitate the public’s ability to obtain
information from SBSEF applications as well as rule and product filings. Proposed Rule 808(a)
would specify the parts of an SBSEF application that shall be made publicly available unless
confidential treatment is obtained pursuant to SEA Rule 24b-2. Proposed Rule 808(b) would
provide that an SBSEF’s rule and product filings shall be made publicly available unless
confidential treatment is obtained pursuant to SEA Rule 24b-2. Proposed Rule 808(c) would
provide that the terms and conditions of a product submitted to the Commission pursuant to any
of proposed Rules 804 through 807 shall be made publicly available at the time of submission
unless confidential treatment is obtained pursuant to SEA Rule 24b-2.
Proposed Rule 809 would provide a mechanism for the staying or tolling of a filing by an
SBSEF relating to a product while the appropriate jurisdictional classification of that product is
determined. The proposed rule is designed to provide regulatory certainty for SBSEFs and
market participants who may be interested in trading products whose classification as an SBS
subject to SEC jurisdiction or a swap subject to CFTC jurisdiction is unclear. In particular,
proposed Rule 809 would help ensure that determinations regarding whether the SEC or CFTC
appropriately has jurisdiction over a product are made before the product is traded.
The Commission’s election to model proposed Rules 804 through 810 closely on
analogous rules in Part 40 of the CFTC’s rules that apply to SEFs (and other registered entities)
is designed to promote efficiency. Utilizing the same processes for rule and product filings,
306
with which dually registered SEF/SBSEFs are familiar, would impose only minimal burdens on
such entities while obtaining the similar regulatory benefits as the CFTC rules. In some cases,
where a new rule or rule amendment affects both the swap and SBS business of a dually
registered entity, the same or a very similar filing could be made to each of the CFTC and SEC,
in lieu of having to make different filings to support the same rule change.
Chief Compliance Officer. Proposed Rule 831 would, among other things, require the
CCO of an SBSEF to submit an annual compliance report and annual financial report to the
Commission. These reports would assist the Commission in carrying out its oversight of the
SBSEFs and the SBS market by providing the Commission with information about the
compliance activities and financial state of SBSEFs. Furthermore, by requiring an SBSEF to
designate an individual as the CCO and making the CCO responsible for ensuring compliance
with the SEA and the Commission’s rules thereunder, proposed Rule 831 would promote
regulatory compliance on SBSEFs and the SBS market generally. This in turn would further the
goal of moving SBS trading away from opaque and unregulated OTC markets and onto
transparent and regulated markets by promoting effective regulation of the latter.
Conflicts of Interest. Proposed Rule 831 would, among other things, require the CCO to
resolve material conflicts of interest that may arise in consultation with the governing board or
the senior officers of the SBSEF.413 Proposed Rule 828(a) would require an SBSEF to establish
and enforce rules to minimize conflicts of interest in its decision-making process and establish a
process for resolving the conflicts of interest. Proposed Rule 828(b) would require an SBSEF to
comply with the requirements of proposed Rule 834 which is designed to implement Section 765

413 See proposed Rules 831(a)(2)(iii) and (h)(2).
307
of the Dodd-Frank Act with respect to SBSEFs and SBS exchanges. Proposed Rule 834 would,
among other things, impose a 20% cap on the voting interest held by an individual member of an
SBSEF or SBS exchange, mitigate conflicts of interest in the disciplinary process of an SBSEF
or SBS exchange, set forth certain minimum requirements for the composition of the governing
board of an SBSEF or SBS exchange, set forth reporting requirements related to governing board
elections, and address the avoidance of conflicts of interest in the execution of regulatory
functions by an SBSEF or SBS exchange.414
The Commission preliminarily believes that the proposed rules would mitigate conflicts
of interest between an SBSEF or SBS exchange and its members as discussed in Section X.
Relative to the bilateral OTC SBS market, SBSEFs and SBS exchanges promote competition
between liquidity providers, potentially forcing them to lower their prices for supplying liquidity
(e.g., narrowing bid-ask spread) and reducing their profits from liquidity provision. However, if
SBS dealers or major SBS participants were able to restrict access to such venues by, for
example, exercising their voting interest in an SBSEF or SBS exchange, they could stifle
competition in SBSEFs and SBS exchanges and preserve their profits from liquidity provision.
The proposal, by mitigating such conflicts of interest415 could help ensure access to SBSEFs and
SBS exchanges and in turn increase competition in liquidity provision and lower transaction
costs. The Commission preliminarily believes that proposed Rules 834(e), (f), and (g) also may
promote good governance at SBSEFs and SBS exchanges. To the extent that improved
governance result in more effective oversight by SBSEFs and SBS exchanges of their markets,

414 See proposed Rules 834(b) to (g).
415 See, e.g., proposed Rule 834(b) (proposing a 20% cap on the voting interest held by an
individual member of an SBSEF or SBS exchange).
308
market participants may benefit. These benefits could be limited to the extent that prospective
SBSEFs and SBS exchanges already have rules in place that comply with the proposed rules.
Structured Data Requirement. Proposed Rule 825(c)(3) would require an SBSEF to
publish a Daily Market Data Report on its website without charge or usage restrictions and in a
downloadable and machine-readable format using the most recent version of the associated XML
schema and PDF renderer as published on the Commission’s website.
416 The Commission
preliminarily believes that requiring the Daily Market Data Report to be provided in a structured,
machine-readable format (using a Commission-created XML schema) would facilitate the use of
the price, trading volume, and other trading data on the report by end users such as SBS market
participants and market observers. By including a structured data requirement, the information
in the report would be made available in a consistent and openly accessible manner that would
allow for automatic processing by software applications, thus enabling search capabilities and
statistical and comparative analyses across SBSEFs and date ranges.417 Absent a structured data
requirement, any SBS market participants and market observers seeking to use the data would
have to spend time manually collecting and entering the data into a format that allows for
analysis, thus increasing the time needed to analyze the data and potentially leading to data
errors. Alternatively, data users could choose to subscribe to a service provider specializing in
such a data aggregation and comparison process. Under that scenario, data users would be
unable to access the posted data on as timely a basis as they would if the disclosures were
 416 See supra note 392 and accompanying text.
417 In addition, the associated PDF renderer would provide users with a human-readable
document for those who prefer to review manually individual reports, while still
providing a uniform presentation.
309
machine-readable upon posting, and users would also incur monetary costs in paying for the
aggregated data.
Proposed Regulation SE would require SBSEFs to file documents required under various
provisions in the EDGAR system using Inline XBRL, a structured (machine-readable) data
language.418 Requiring a centralized filing location and a machine-readable data language for the
filings would facilitate access, retrieval, analysis, and comparison of the disclosed information
across different SBSEFs and time periods by the Commission and the public, thus potentially
augmenting the informational benefits of the various disclosure requirements discussed herein.
Also, because EDGAR provides basic technical validation capabilities, the use of EDGAR could
reduce the incidence of technical errors (e.g., letters instead of numbers in a field requiring only
numbers) and thereby improve the quality of the disclosures.
Unlike the XML schema that would be used for Daily Market Data Reports, Inline XBRL
would provide the ability to tag detailed facts within narrative text blocks, and is thus likely more
well-suited to accommodate the other filings required under proposed Regulation SE, many of
which require narrative discussions (e.g., the explanation and analysis of the product and its
 418 This includes the documents required under: proposed Rule 803(b)(1)(i) and (3) (filings
of, and amendments to, a Form SBSEF application); proposed Rules 803(e) and 803(f)
(requests to withdraw or vacate an application for registration); proposed Rule 804(a)(1)
(filings for listing products for trading by certification); proposed Rule 805(a)(1) (filings
for voluntary submission of new products for Commission review and approval);
proposed Rule 806(a)(1) (filings for voluntary submission of rules for Commission
review and approval); proposed Rule 807(a)(1) (filings for self-certification of rules);
proposed Rule 807(d) (filings of weekly notifications to the Commission of rules and rule
amendments that were not required to be certified); proposed Rule 829(g)(6) (submission
to the Commission of reports related to financial resources and related documentation);
proposed Rule 831(j)(2) (submission to the Commission of the annual compliance report
of SBSEF’s CCO). See supra Section XV.
310
compliance with applicable provisions of the SEA for a product filing required under Rule
804419). In addition, certain proposed SBSEF disclosures consist of financial information (e.g.,
the financial statements of the SBSEF required under Exhibit I to Form SBSEF), and Inline
XBRL is designed specifically for the accurate capture and communication of financial
information, among other uses.420
3. Costs
Although the Commission preliminarily believes that proposed Regulation SE would
benefit the SBS market, the Commission recognizes that the proposed Regulation SE also would
entail certain costs. Some costs are difficult to precisely quantify and are discussed below. The
Commission is mindful that any rules it may adopt with respect to SBSEFs under the DoddFrank Act may impact the incentives of market participants with respect to where and how they
trade SBS. If the rules proposed by the Commission are, or are perceived to be, too costly for
trading venues to comply with, fewer entities than expected may seek to register as SBSEFs,
which would not further the goal of moving a greater percentage of SBS trading from opaque
and unregulated OTC markets to transparent and regulated trading venues. In addition, if the
proposed rules for trading on an SBSEF are perceived as too burdensome by market participants,
SBS trading may continue in the OTC market absent a mandatory clearing determination and a
triggering of the mandatory trade execution requirement, thus frustrating the goals of the Dodd-
 419 See proposed Rule 804(c)(3)(v).
420 For example, because Inline XBRL enables the block tagging of textual narrative
disclosures and the individual tagging of numeric disclosures nested within those textual
narrative disclosures, it facilitates the comprehensive capture and communication of
information contained in notes to financial statements.
311
Frank Act.421 At the same time, if the proposed rules relating to SBSEFs are too lenient, they
may have little or no impact on the market structure and surveillance of the SBS market relative
to the status quo, which could result in the loss of many of the benefits discussed above and fail
to achieve the goals of the Dodd-Frank Act.
In addition, SBS traded on SBSEFs may be perceived to be subject to increased costs,
monetary and otherwise. For example, the proposed requirements related to pre-trade
transparency could cause market participants to reveal valuable economic information regarding
their trading interest more broadly than they may believe would be economically prudent and
could discourage participation in the SBS market. An additional impact of pre-trade
transparency are perceived costs associated with frontrunning, if customers or SBS dealers are
required to show their trading interest before a trade is executed. These potential costs of pretrade transparency may change market participants’ trading strategies, which could result in them
working more orders or finding ways to attempt to hide their interest.422 If market participants
view the Commission’s proposal as too burdensome with respect to pre-trade transparency, SBS
dealers may be less willing to supply liquidity for SBS that trade on SBSEFs or exchanges, thus
adversely affecting liquidity and competition. However, such effects could be mitigated by
MAT determinations that would require SBS trading to occur on SBSEFs or exchanges. On the
other hand, if the proposed requirements with respect to pre-trade transparency are too loose, the
result could be that there would be no substantive change from the status quo, including no
 421 See Section XIX(C) (noting that the benefits and costs associated with the trade execution
requirement would not materialize unless and until the Commission makes mandatory
clearing determinations).
422 See, e.g., Ananth Madhavan, Market Microstructure: A Survey, J. of Fin. Markets, Vol. 3
(2000).
312
benefits of alleviating informational asymmetries, increasing price competition, and supplying
better executions beyond the changes in response to the other requirements of the Dodd-Frank
Act. This actual impact would depend on the degree of pre-trade transparency required and the
characteristics of the trading market. The proposed rules are intended to provide for greater pretrade transparency than currently exists without requiring pre-trade transparency in a manner that
would cause participants to avoid providing liquidity on SBSEFs.
The Commission preliminarily believes that there would be transaction costs, such as fees
and connectivity costs, that trading counterparties would incur in executing or trading SBS
subject to the trade execution requirement on SBSEFs. Likewise, although unregulated trading
venues exist in today’s OTC derivatives market, the Commission does not have information
regarding what, if any, fees and connectivity costs are associated with transacting on these
unregulated trading venues. The Commission invites commenters to provide feedback on the
likely fees and costs associated with transacting on SBSEFs as well as fees and costs associated
with transacting on unregulated trading venues that exist in today’s OTC derivatives market.
As discussed in Section XIX(B), the Commission preliminarily believes that prospective
SBSEF registrants are likely to be CFTC-registered SEFs that are active in the index CDS
market. Because the proposed rules are harmonized as closely as practicable with analogous
CFTC rules for SEFs, unless a reason exists to do otherwise in a particular area, the Commission
preliminarily believes that much of the systems, policies, and procedures that are used to support
SEF trading also could be used to support SBSEF trading. The prospective SBSEF registrants
likely would incur marginal costs associated with listing SBS products on their venues423 and
 423 See infra Section XIX(C)(3)(c) (discussing the costs that these entities might incur to list
SBS products).
313
making limited changes to their systems, policies, and procedures to comply with proposed SEC
rules that differ slightly from analogous CFTC rules. The Commission preliminarily estimates
the one-time costs associated with such changes to systems, policies, and procedures would
range between $25,000 and $1.5 million per SBSEF, depending on the changes needed. The
annual ongoing costs of maintaining the technology (e.g., ensuring any necessary technological
updates and improvements are made) and applying the technology to ongoing compliance
requirements are estimated to be in the range of $1 million to $2 million.424 The Commission
invites commenters to provide feedback on the costs that SEFs may incur should they register as
SBSEFs.
We detail below cost estimates for specifics parts of the proposed rules. Many of these
costs estimates are based on the PRA estimates of costs and burdens from Section XX.
425
 424 In the 2011 SBSEF Proposal, the Commission estimated that an entity owning or
operating a platform for the trading of OTC derivatives would incur costs of between
$50,000 and $3 million to enhance its platform to be compatible with proposed
requirements in that release. Further, such an entity would incur annual ongoing costs of
between $2 million and $4 million to maintain such enhancements. See 2011 SBSEF
Proposal, 76 FR at 11041. The Commission is revising these estimates downward by
50%, taking into account any potential inflationary effects, because harmonizing
proposed Regulation SE closely with CFTC rules likely would reduce the one-time and
annual ongoing costs incurred by SEFs to change their systems, policies, and procedures
to comply with proposed Regulation SE, if they choose to register as SBSEFs.
Therefore, the Commission preliminarily estimates that the one-time costs associated
with changes to systems, policies, and procedures would range between $50,000/2 =
$25,000 and $3 million/2 = $1.5 million per SBSEF, depending on the changes needed.
The annual ongoing costs are preliminarily estimated to be between $2 million/2 = $1
million and $4 million/2 = $2 million.
425 In Section XX infra, for purposes of the PRA, the Commission preliminarily estimates
burdens applicable to a stand-alone SBSEF. However, most if not all SBSEFs will be
dually registered with the CFTC as SEFs and thus will already be complying with
relevant CFTC rules that have analogs to rules proposed in Regulation SE. Therefore, the
314
a. Registration requirements for SBSEFs and Form SBSEF
The Commission preliminarily believes that the proposed registration provisions would
impose costs on entities that seek registration as SBSEFs. The Commission preliminarily
estimates that initial filings on Form SBSEF by prospective SBSEFs seeking to register with the
Commission pursuant to proposed Rule 803 would result in aggregate initial costs of $94,400 for
prospective SBSEFs.
426
b. Ongoing compliance with other requirements that are similar
to the remainder of Part 37
As discussed in Section XX(D)(2)(b), the Commission preliminarily estimates the
aggregate annual paperwork burden for SBSEFs to comply with all of the proposed SBSEF rules
that have analogs in Part 37 to be 1935 hours.
427 These burdens are estimated to impose
aggregate ongoing annual costs of $123,840 on SBSEFs.428

Commission’s burden estimates are greater for stand-alone SBSEFs than may exist in
practice, considering the effect of overlapping CFTC rules.
426 $94,400 = 1,475 burden hours x $64/hour blended hourly rate. The $64/hour blended
hourly rate is the $59/hour blended hourly rate computed by the CFTC and adjusted for
CPI inflation through December 2021. The CFTC used the blended hourly wage to
estimate PRA costs associated with Part 37. See infra Section XX(D)(2)(a); OMB,
Supporting Statement for New and Revised Information Collections: Core Principles and
Other Requirements for Swap Execution Facilities, OMB Control Number 3038-0074,
Attachment A (July 7, 2021), available at https://omb.report/icr/202107-3038-
004/doc/113431800.pdf. CPI inflation adjustment is based on data published by the
Bureau of Labor Statistics. See CPI Inflation Calculator, U.S. BUREAU OF LABOR
STATISTICS, available at https://www.bls.gov/data/inflation_calculator.htm.
427 See infra Section XX(D)(2)(b). This estimate excludes the paperwork burdens associated
with registration requirements for SBSEFs and Form SBSEF and provisions of certain
proposed rules to be discussed subsequently.
428 $123,840 = 1,935 burden hours x $64/hour blended hourly rate. See supra note 426
(derivation of the $64/hour blended hourly rate).
315
c. Rule and product filing processes for SBSEFs
The Commission preliminarily estimates that the aggregate ongoing annual costs incurred
by all SBSEFs to prepare and submit rule and product filings under proposed Rules 804, 805,
806, and 807 (including the cover sheet) would be $31,200.
429
d. Proposed Rules 809, 811, 819, 826, 829, 833, 834, and 835
The Commission preliminarily estimates the aggregate ongoing annual costs incurred by
SBSEFs to comply with proposed Rule 809 would be $108.
430
The Commission preliminarily estimates the aggregate ongoing annual costs incurred by
SBSEFs to comply with requests for documents or information pursuant to proposed Rule 811(d)
 429 $31,200 = 300 hours x $104/hour blended hourly rate. The $104/hour blended hourly
rate is the $96.26/hour blended hourly rate computed by the CFTC and adjusted for CPI
inflation through December 2021. The CFTC used the blended hourly rate to estimate
PRA costs associated with Part 40. See Section XX(D)(3)(a); OMB, Supporting
Statement for Information Collection Renewal: OMB Control Number 3038-0093,
Attachment A (July 10, 2020), available at https://omb.report/icr/202005-3038-
001/doc/101274002.pdf. CPI inflation adjustment is based on data published by the
Bureau of Labor Statistics. See U.S. BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS, supra note 426. The
platform ID requirement on the submission cover sheet would not impose burdens for
obtaining a platform ID, because an SBSEF (whether registered or exempt) is already
required under Rule 903(a) of Regulation SBSR to obtain an LEI to identify itself as its
platform ID. See supra note 84.
430 $108 = 1.25 hours x $86/hour hourly rate for a compliance officer. The $86/hour hourly
rate for a compliance officer is the $70/hour hourly rate for a compliance officer
computed by the CFTC and adjusted for CPI inflation through December 2021. The
CFTC used the hourly rate to estimate PRA costs associated with § 40.12 after which
proposed Rule 809 is modelled. See infra Section XX(D)(3)(b)(ii); Revised Supporting
Statement for New Information Collections: Part 40, Provisions Common to Registered
Entities, OMB Control Number 3038-AD07, Attachment A (October 14, 2011), available
at: https://omb.report/icr/201203-3038-005/doc/31042501. CPI inflation adjustment is
based on data published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics. See U.S. BUREAU OF LABOR
STATISTICS, supra note 426.
316
would be $88.
431
The Commission preliminarily estimates the aggregate ongoing annual costs incurred by
SBSEFs to comply with proposed Rule 819(i) would be $25,546.
432
The Commission preliminarily estimates the aggregate ongoing annual costs incurred by
SBSEFs to comply with proposed Rule 819(j) would be $1,135.
433
The Commission preliminarily estimates the aggregate ongoing annual costs incurred by
SBSEFs to update information required by proposed Rule 826(f) would be $152.
434 The
 431 $88 = 1 hour x $88/hour hourly rate for an attorney. The $88/hour hourly rate is the
$80/hour hourly rate computed by the CFTC and adjusted for CPI inflation through
December 2021. The CFTC used the hourly rate to estimate PRA costs associated with
Part 1.6. See infra Section XX(D)(4)(a); OMB, Supporting Statement for New and
Revised Information Collections: OMB Control Number 3038-0033 (August 23, 2018),
available at https://omb.report/icr/201808-3038-004/doc/85625801.pdf. CPI inflation
adjustment is based on data published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics. See U.S.
BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS, supra note 426.
432 $25,546 = 399.15 hours x $64/hour blended hourly rate. The Commission preliminarily
believes that the burdens associated with this proposed rule are not different from
burdens associated with proposed rules that have Part 37 analogs. Thus, the Commission
preliminarily believes that it would be appropriate to apply the $64/hour blended hourly
rate to estimate the paperwork related costs associated with this proposed rule. See infra
Section XX(D)(4)(c). See also supra note 426 (derivation of the $64/hour blended hourly
rate).
433 $1,135 = 2.5 hours x $454/hour national hourly rate for an attorney. See infra Section
XX(D)(4)(d). The per-hour figure for an attorney is from SIFMA’s Management and
Professional Earnings in the Securities Industry – 2013, as modified by Commission staff
to adjust for inflation (through December 2021) and to account for an 1,800-hour workyear, and multiplied by 5.35 to account for bonuses, firm size, employee benefits, and
overhead.
434 $152 = 2 hours x $76/hour national hourly rate for a compliance clerk. See infra Section
XX(D)(4)(f). The per-hour figure for a compliance clerk is from SIFMA’s Office
Salaries in the Securities Industry—2013, as modified by Commission staff to adjust for
inflation (through December 2021) and to account for an 1,800-hour work-year, and
multiplied by 5.35 to account for bonuses, firm size, employee benefits, and overhead.
317
Commission preliminarily estimates that interested parties would incur aggregate one-time costs
of $108,960 in the first year and $72,640 in each subsequent year to submit exemption requests
under one or both paragraphs of proposed Rule 833.435
The Commission preliminarily estimates that SBSEFs and SBS exchanges would incur
aggregate one-time costs of $47,880 associated with drafting and implementing rules to comply
with proposed Rules 834(b) and (c).436
The Commission preliminarily estimates that SBSEFs and SBS exchanges would incur
aggregate ongoing annual costs of $640 to comply with proposed Rules 834(d), 834(e), and
834(f).437
The Commission preliminarily estimates that SBSEFs and SBS exchanges would incur
 435 First year costs: $108,960 = 240 hours x $454/hour national hourly rate for an attorney.
Costs in each subsequent year: $72,640 = 160 hours x $454/hour national hourly rate for
an attorney. See infra Section XX(D)(5)(a). See also supra note 433 (derivation of the
national hourly rate for an attorney).
436 $47,880 = 120 hours x $399/hour national hourly rate for a compliance attorney. The
estimate of 120 burden hours is based on the Commission’s preliminary estimate that five
SBSEFs and three SBS exchanges will incur paperwork burdens associated with
proposed Rules 834(b) and (c). See infra Section XX(D)(4)(g). The per-hour figure for a
compliance attorney is from SIFMA’s Management and Professional Earnings in the
Securities Industry—2013, as modified by Commission staff to adjust for inflation
(through December 2021) and to account for an 1,800-hour work-year, and multiplied by
5.35 to account for bonuses, firm size, employee benefits, and overhead.
437 $640 = 10 hours x $64/hour blended hourly rate. Further, the costs incurred by SBSEFs
= 5 (number of SBSEFs) x 1.25 hours per SBSEF x $64/hour blended hourly rate = $400.
The Commission preliminarily believes that the burdens associated with this proposed
rule are not different from burdens associated with proposed rules that have Part 37
analogs. Thus, the Commission preliminarily believes that it would be appropriate to
apply the $64/hour blended hourly rate to estimate the paperwork related costs associated
with this proposed rule. See infra Section XX(D)(4)(g). See also supra note 426
(derivation of the $64/hour blended hourly rate).
318
aggregate one-time costs of $1,024 to comply with proposed Rule 834(g).438
The Commission preliminarily estimates that SBSEFs would incur aggregate ongoing
annual costs of $20,430 to comply with proposed Rule 835.439
The Commission preliminarily believes that SBSEFs likely would incur costs to comply
with the financial resources requirement of proposed Rule 829(b). Assuming that SBSEFs
satisfy this requirement by holding financial resources in the form of their own capital pursuant
to proposed Rule 829(c)(1), the Commission preliminarily estimates that SBSEFs would incur an
aggregate annual cost of capital of $33,377.
440 SBSEFs could lower this cost if their capital
 438 $1,024 = 16 hours x $64/hour blended hourly rate. The Commission preliminarily
believes that the burdens associated with this proposed rule are not different from
burdens associated with proposed rules that have Part 37 analogs. Thus, the Commission
preliminarily believes that it would be appropriate to apply the $64/hour blended hourly
rate to estimate the paperwork related costs associated with this proposed rule. See infra
Section XX(D)(4)(g). See also supra note 426 (derivation of the $64/hour blended
hourly rate).
439 $20,430 = 45 hours x $454/hour national hourly rate for an attorney. See infra Section
XX(D)(5)(b). See also supra note 433 (derivation of the national hourly rate for an
attorney).
440 The Commission preliminarily estimates the financial resources that SBSEFs would need
to hold pursuant to proposed Rule 829(b) as their projected operating costs. See proposed
Rule 829(b). Further, the Commission preliminarily estimates SBSEFs’ projected
operating costs as the sum of the aggregate ongoing annual costs incurred by SBSEFs to
comply with proposed Regulation SE. Thus, SBSEFs’ estimated projected operating
costs = $123,840 (ongoing compliance with other proposed requirements that are similar
to the remainder of Part 37) + $31,200 (rule and product filing processes by SBSEFs) +
$108 (proposed Rule 809) + $88 (proposed Rule 811(d)) + $25,546 (proposed Rule
819(i)) + $1,135 (proposed Rule 819(j)) + $152 (proposed Rule 826(f)) + $400 (proposed
Rules 834(d), (e), and (f)) + $20,430 (proposed Rule 835) = $202,898. Thus, the
Commission preliminarily estimates that SBSEFs would hold $203,221 in the form of
their own capital to comply with proposed Rule 829(b). The Commission preliminarily
estimates SBSEFs’ cost of capital using the annual stock returns on a value-weighted
portfolio of financial stocks from 1986 to 2021. See website of Professor Ken French,
available at:
319
consists of financial assets that generate a return that would serve to offset the cost of capital.
However, this cost mitigation is potentially limited by proposed Rule 829(d), which would
require an SBSEF to include among the financial resources it holds, a certain amount of
unencumbered, liquid financial assets (i.e., cash and/or highly liquid securities),441 that tend to
generate little or no return.
e. Assessment costs
The Commission preliminarily believes that 87 entities likely would incur assessment
costs as a result of proposed Rule 832, based on an analysis of counterparties to U.S. singlename CDS. Such costs would be related primarily to the identification of the counterparty status
and origination location of the transaction to determine whether the trade execution requirement
would apply. The Commission preliminarily believes that market participants would request
representations from their transaction counterparties to determine the U.S.-person status of their

http://mba.tuck.dartmouth.edu/pages/faculty/ken.french/ftp/48_Industry_Portfolios_CSV.
zip (accessed on March 14, 2022). These returns were averaged to arrive at an estimate
of 16.45%. SBSEFs’ aggregate annual cost of capital = $202,898 x 16.45% = $33,377.
The Commission acknowledges that there is uncertainty associated with this estimate.
The estimate does not account for the fact that SBSEFs may use reasonable discretion in
determining the methodologies used to calculate projected operating costs and wind
down costs, pursuant to proposed Rule 829(e). Depending on how SBSEFs exercise this
reasonable discretion, the resulting methodologies could yield projected operating costs
and in turn, required financial resources, that may be higher or lower than the
Commission’s estimate.
441 The CFTC’s experience overseeing SEFs would appear to support the preliminarily belief
that SBSEFs would hold unencumbered, liquid financial assets rather than obtain a line of
credit to comply with proposed Rule 829(d). In a previous rulemaking, the CFTC noted
that most SEFs satisfy the liquidity requirement of § 37.1303 (the analog of proposed
Rule 829(d)) through maintaining liquid assets rather than obtaining a line of credit. See
CFTC, Swap Execution Facilities, 86 FR 9224, 9242, n. 247 (February 11, 2021) (“2021
SEF Amendments Adopting Release”).
320
counterparties. In addition, if the transaction is guaranteed by a U.S. person, the guarantee
would be part of the trading documentation and, therefore, the existence of the guarantee would
be a readily ascertainable fact. Similarly, market participants would be able to rely on their
counterparties’ representations as to whether a transaction is arranged, negotiated or executed by
a person within the United States. Therefore, the Commission preliminarily believes that the
assessment costs associated with proposed Rule 832 should be limited to the costs of establishing
a compliance policy and procedure of requesting and collecting representations from trading
counterparties and maintaining the collected representations as part of the market participants’
recordkeeping procedures. The Commission preliminarily believes that such assessment costs
would be approximately $18,160 per entity.
442 The Commission preliminarily believes that
requesting and collecting representations would be part of the standardized transaction process
reflected in the policies and procedures regarding SBS transactions and trading practices and
should not result in separate assessment costs.
The Commission also considers the likelihood that market participants could implement
systems to keep track of counterparty status for purposes of future trading of SBS that are similar
to, if not the same as, the systems implemented by market participants for purposes of assessing
SBS dealer or major SBS participant status. Implementation of such a system would involve
 442 $18,160 = 40 hours x $454/hour national hourly rate for an attorney. This estimate is
based on an estimated 40 hours of in-house legal or compliance staff’s time to establish a
procedure of requesting and collecting representations from trading counterparties, taking
into account that such representations may be built into a form of standardized trading
documentation. See supra note 433 (derivation of the national hourly rate for an
attorney).
321
one-time programming costs of $14,802 per entity.
443 Therefore, the Commission estimates the
total one-time costs per entity associated with proposed Rule 832 could be $32,962 and the
aggregate one-time costs could be $2,867,694.
444 To the extent that market participants have
incurred costs relating to similar or the same assessments with respect to counterparty status and
transaction location for other Title VII requirements, their assessment costs with respect to
proposed Rule 832 may be less.
f. Structured data costs
The Commission preliminarily believes that SBSEFs would likely incur limited costs to
comply with the proposed requirement in Rule 825(c)(3) to publish Daily Market Data Reports
using the most recent versions of the associated XML schema and PDF renderer as published on
the Commission's website. Because SBSEFs are required to use a structured format to fulfill
 443 This is based on an estimate of the time required for a programmer analyst to modify the
software to track the covered person status of a counterparty, including consultation with
internal personnel, and an estimate of the time such personnel would require to ensure
that these modifications conformed to the definition of “covered person” (as defined in
proposed Rule 832). $14,802 = (2 hours x $399/hour national hourly rate for a
compliance attorney) + (4 hours x $338/hour national hourly rate for a compliance
manager) + (40 hours x $263/hour national hourly rate for a programmer analyst) + (4
hours x $250/hour national hourly rate for a senior internal auditor) + (2 hours x
$566/hour rate for a Chief Financial Officer). The per-hour figures for compliance
attorney, compliance manager, programmer analyst, and senior internal auditor are from
SIFMA’s Management & Professional Earnings in the Securities Industry—2013, as
modified by Commission staff to adjust for inflation (through December 2021) and to
account for an 1,800-hour work-year, and multiplied by 5.35 to account for bonuses, firm
size, employee benefits, and overhead. The hourly rate for a Chief Financial Officer is
the $473 hourly rate for the same position used in the Cross-Border Proposing Release
(see 78 FR 31140, n. 1425) and adjusted for inflation through December 2021.
444 Total one-time costs per entity = $18,160 (compliance policy and procedure) + $14,802
(systems) = $32,962. Aggregate one-time costs = 87 entities x $32,962 = $2,867,694.
322
their reporting requirements under Regulation SBSR, the compliance cost associated with the
Rule 825(c)(3) requirement would be limited to the cost prospective SBSEF registrants would
incur to update their systems to incorporate the Commission’s XML schema for Daily Market
Data Reports.445 Such costs are included among the costs for prospective SBSEF registrants in
making limited changes to their systems, policies, and procedures to comply with proposed SEC
rules that differ slightly from analogous CFTC rules, as discussed in further detail above.446
With respect to the proposed Inline XBRL requirement for other documents required
under proposed Regulation SE, the Commission preliminarily believes that SBSEFs would incur
initial Inline XBRL implementation costs (such as the cost of training in-house staff to prepare
filings in Inline XBRL, and the cost to license Inline XBRL filing preparation software from
vendors) and ongoing Inline XBRL compliance burdens that would result from the proposed
tagging requirement, because prospective SBSEF registrants are not currently subject to Inline
XBRL requirements. Similarly, because prospective SBSEF registrants are not currently subject
to EDGAR requirements, the Commission preliminarily believes they will incur a one-time
compliance burden of submitting a Form ID as required by Rule 10(b) of Regulation S-T.
447 The
aforementioned costs are included among the costs for prospective SBSEF registrants in making
limited changes to their systems, policies, and procedures to comply with proposed SEC rules
that differ slightly from analogous CFTC rules, as discussed in further detail above.448
 445 See 17 CFR 242.907(a)(2) (requiring information to be submitted to SDRs in an “opensource structured data format that is widely used by participants”).
446 See infra note 424 and accompanying text.
447 See 17 CFR 232.10(b).
448 See infra note 424 and accompanying text.
323
4. Reasonable alternatives
The Commission considered a number of alternatives when formulating the proposed
rules and amendments.
In developing proposed Regulation SE, the Commission considered the alternative of not
harmonizing its rules with analogous CFTC rules. As discussed in Sections II and XIX(B), the
entities that are most likely to register with the Commission as SBSEFs are those already
registered with the CFTC as SEFs. These entities have made substantial investments in systems,
policies, and procedures to comply with and adapt to the regulatory system developed by the
CFTC. Under the proposed approach of harmonizing with CFTC rules to the extent possible,
dually registered entities could utilize their existing systems, policies, and procedures to comply
with the Commission’s SBSEF rules, and SEF market participants would face no or only
incremental changes to trade SBS as well as swaps on those facilities, and to comply with the
Commission’s rules regarding SBS trading. Under the alternative approach whereby the
Commission establishes different or additive requirements, dually registered entities and their
market participants might need to incur costs and burdens to modify their systems, policies, and
procedures to comply with the SEC-specific rules. Further, proposed requirements that are
significantly different from the rules that apply to the swap market could cause SEFs to question
whether it is economically viable to enter the SBS market and to register with the Commission as
SBSEFs. The Commission preliminary believes that the proposed approach would deliver to the
SBS market the regulatory benefits generated by the CFTC regulatory framework and help
promote the trading of SBS on regulated platforms, while imposing only limited costs on
SBSEFs. The Commission preliminarily believes that this trade-off is preferable to the trade-off
associated with the alternative approach.
324
In formulating the proposed definition of “block trade,” the Commission considered the
alternative of harmonizing the third prong of the proposed definition with the third prong of the
CFTC definition of “block trade.” The third prong of the CFTC definition characterizes a block
trade in a particular swap as having “a notional or principal amount at or above the appropriate
minimum block size applicable to such swap.” As discussed in Section VII(E), because SBS are
not within the CFTC’s jurisdiction, the CFTC has never considered what an appropriate
minimum block size threshold would be for any SBS asset class. There is no CFTC-defined
threshold with which to harmonize when formulating the third prong of the proposed definition
of “block trade.” Accordingly, the Commission preliminarily believes that establishing a
threshold tailored specifically for the SBS market is preferable to the alternative.
In formulating proposed Rule 804(a)(2), the Commission considered the alternative of
proposing a one-business-day review of a self-certified SBS product before an SBSEF could list
the product. This alternative would harmonize with the parallel provision in § 40.2(a).449 The
Commission preliminarily believes that a ten-business-day review period for self-certified SBS
products before they can be listed strikes a reasonable balance between allowing SBSEFs to
bring new products to market quickly while affording the Commission staff a reasonable period
in which to assess them. The proposed ten-business-day review period for self-certified products
also accords with the CFTC’s ten-business-day review period for self-certified rules,450 which the
 449 See § 40.2(a)(2) (one condition for a valid self-certification of a product is that the CFTC
has received the submission by the open of business on the business day preceding the
product’s listing).
450 See § 40.6(a)(3) (one condition for a valid self-certification of a rule or rule amendment is
that the CFTC has received the submission not later than the open of business on the
325
Commission is proposing to replicate in Rule 807(a)(3).451 Thus, the Commission preliminarily
believes the proposed approach is preferable to the alternative.
In formulating proposed Rule 825(c), which would require an SBSEF to publish a “Daily
Market Data Report” on its website, the Commission considered the alternative of requiring
SBSEFs to submit the information in such reports directly to the Commission. The Commission
believes that the regulatory data that it is receiving pursuant to Regulation SBSR would generate
the same information as that contained in such reports. Thus, the Commission preliminarily
believes that the proposed approach is preferable to the alternative because it would relieve
SBSEFs of the need to send daily reports to Commission while preserving the Commission’s
ability to be informed about SBSEF market activity via the regulatory data it receives pursuant to
Regulation SBSR.
The Commission also considered the alternative of requiring a structured data language
other than Inline XBRL for SBSEF filings. For example, the Commission could create an XMLbased data language (i.e., an XML schema) specific to SBSEF filings, similar to the XML
schema to be used for Daily Market Data Reports under proposed Rule 825. The Commission
preliminarily believes, however, that Inline XBRL would be more suitable for SBSEF filings to
the Commission. As noted, unlike an XML schema that would be used under this alternative,
Inline XBRL would provide the ability to tag detailed facts within narrative text blocks, and is
thus likely more well-suited to accommodate the other filings required under proposed
Regulation SE, many of which require narrative discussions (e.g., the explanation and analysis of

business day that is ten business days prior to the SEF’s implementation of the rule or
rule amendment).
451 See infra Section VI(D).
326
the product and its compliance with applicable provisions of the SEA for a product filing
required under Rule 804). In addition, certain proposed SBSEF disclosures consist of financial
information (e.g., the financial statements of the SBSEF required under Exhibit I to Form
SBSEF), and Inline XBRL is designed specifically for the accurate capture and communication
of financial information, among other uses.452
Another alternative that the Commission considered is to require that an exemption order
under proposed Rule 833(a) could apply to a foreign trading venue only if it traded SBS and no
other types of securities. Under this alternative, an exemption order would be unavailable to a
foreign trading venue that trades SBS and other types of securities. The Commission
preliminarily believes, however, that this alternative is unnecessary. Other jurisdictions might
have market structures where it is common to trade SBS and other types of securities on the
same trading venue. The Commission preliminarily believes that it would be inequitable to
disqualify such jurisdictions ex ante from qualifying for a Rule 833(a) exemption.
In connection with the proposed amendments to Rule 3a1-1, the Commission considered
the alternative of applying the retraction provisions of Rule 3a1-1(b) to SBSEFs and clearing
agencies that are covered by proposed paragraphs (a)(4) and (a)(5), respectively, of Rule 3a1-1.
Under this alternative, if a registered SBSEF or a registered clearing agency were to grow above
a certain size, its exemption under proposed paragraph (a)(4) or (a)(5), respectively, could be
retracted, forcing it to register as a national securities exchange.
The Commission preliminarily believes that, in adopting Section 3D of the SEA,
Congress gave the Commission a mechanism to regulate SBSEFs of any size. Nothing in
 452 See supra Section XIX(C)(2).
327
Section 3D suggests that, if an SBSEF were to grow above a certain size, the Commission should
be able to withdraw that entity’s ability to operate as an SBSEF and instead compel it to register
as a national securities exchange. The Commission preliminarily believes that it is not necessary
to apply the retraction provisions in Rule 3a1-1(b) to registered clearing agencies that engage in
forced trading sessions and are covered by proposed Rule 3a1-1(a)(5). SBS transactions effected
using this functionality are designed to facilitate the clearance and settlement process, and forced
trading sessions are carried out by registered clearing agencies under rules that have been
approved by the Commission. This trading functionality is not effected for the purpose of
conducting open-market transactions. Therefore, the Commission preliminarily believes that it
would not be appropriate to apply the retraction provisions of Rule 3a1-1(b) to clearing agencies
that would be covered by proposed Rule 3a1-1(a)(5), as this would force these clearing agencies
also to register as national securities exchanges. For the above reasons, the Commission
preliminarily believes that the proposed approach is preferable to this alternative.
In connection with proposed Rule 15a-12, the Commission considered the alternative of
not exempting SBSEF-Bs from Section 17(a) of the SEA, which requires a registered broker
(among other types of registered entity) to make and keep records as prescribed by Commission
rule.453 This approach would subject SBSEF-Bs to the full scope of the Commission’s books and
records rules under Section 17(a). The Commission is proposing instead to utilize proposed Rule
15a-12 to exempt SBSEF-Bs from Section 17(a), among other provisions applying to brokers,
and instead to subject SBSEF-Bs to proposed new Rule 826, which derives its statutory authority
from Core Principle 9 in Section 3D of the SEA. This approach would allow the Commission to
 453 15 U.S.C. 78q(a).
328
tailor a books and records rule specifically to the limited business as an SBSEF-B and to better
harmonize with the books and records requirements of the CFTC to which the SBSEF-B would
likely also be subject.
D. Effects on efficiency, competition, and capital formation
Proposed Regulation SE and the other proposed rules and rule amendments would likely
affect competition, capital formation, and efficiency in various ways discussed below.
1. Competition
As discussed earlier, currently, the SBS market is dominated by a small group of SBS
dealers.454 A mandatory clearing determination by the Commission, followed by a MAT
determination by one or more SBSEFs, should help foster greater competition in the trading of
SBS by promoting greater order interaction and increasing participation on SBSEFs. Further,
proposed rules that improve access to SBSEFs by market participants could increase
participation and competition in liquidity provision in the SBS market.455 To the extent that
increased competition in liquidity provision reduces the price of liquidity provision (e.g., bidask spread), market participants could benefit in terms of lower transaction costs.
2. Capital formation
The Commission preliminary believes that the proposal could promote capital formation
by helping to improve regulatory oversight and market integrity. Regulation SE would require,
among other things, that SBSEFs maintain an audit trail and automated trade surveillance
 454 See supra Section XIX(B)(2).
455 See supra Section XIX(C)(1) (discussing improved access and competition as an
overarching benefit of the proposal).
329
system; conduct real-time market monitoring; establish and enforce rules for information
collection; and comply with reporting and recordkeeping requirements.456 These requirements
are designed to provide an SBSEF with sufficient information to oversee trading on its market,
including detecting and deterring abusive trading practices.
457 The proposed audit trail and
recordkeeping and reporting requirements, by providing the Commission access to information
about SBSEFs, would increase the Commission’s ability to assess risks in the SBS market and to
oversee the market, which all else being equal should reduce the amount of risky or abusive
behavior in the SBS market.
458 Further, proposed Rule 831, the proposed requirements relating
to the CCO, would promote regulatory compliance on SBSEFs and the SBS market generally.459
In addition, the proposal would provide for various safeguards to help promote market integrity,
including proposed Rule 819(c) relating to impartial access to the SBSEF460 and proposed Rule
830 relating to systems safeguards. Any resulting increase in regulatory oversight and market
integrity likely would increase market participants’ confidence in the soundness and fairness of
SBSEFs, which in turn could spill over into increased confidence in the soundness and fairness
of the SBS market more broadly. Such increased confidence could lead to the greater use of
SBS, particularly those traded on SBSEFs, by corporate entities to hedge their business risks
and investors to hedge their portfolio risks with respect to positions in underlying securities.
 456 See proposed Rules 819, 821, 822, and 826.
457 See supra Section XIX(C)(1) (discussing improved oversight of trading by SBSEFs as an
overarching benefit of the proposal).
458 See supra Section XIX(C)(1) (discussing improved Commission oversight as an
overarching benefit of the proposal).
459 See supra Section XIX(C)(2) (discussing the benefits associated with proposed Rule
831).
460 See supra note 455.
330
To the extent that corporate entities can improve their hedging efficiency with SBS, they may
divert resources from precautionary savings into productive assets, thereby promoting capital
formation. To the extent that investors can improve their hedging efficiency with SBS, they
may be more willing to invest in the underlying securities, which should facilitate capital
raising and formation by issuers. Therefore, the Commission preliminarily believes that the
proposed rules would help encourage capital formation.
By reducing the risk of trading disruptions on SBSEFs, proposed Rules 829 and 830
could lead to the greater use of SBS traded on SBSEFs. This in turn could promote capital
formation as discussed above.
3. Efficiency
The Commission preliminarily believes that the proposed requirements with respect to
pre-trade price transparency could lead to more efficient pricing in the SBS market. The
proposed rules are designed to increase pre-trade price transparency for SBS,which should aid
market participants in evaluating current market prices for SBS, thereby furthering more efficient
price discovery. Price transparency, coupled with increased competition in liquidity provision as
discussed above,461 could further decrease the spread in quoted prices, and thus could lead to
higher efficiency in the trading of these securities.
The Commission recognizes the possibility that pre-trade price transparency could cause
market participants to reveal more information about trading interest than they believe would be
economically desirable. If market participants consider that pre-trade price transparency
requirements are too burdensome and choose not to participate in the market, market efficiency
 461 See supra Section XIX(D)(1).
331
could be reduced insofar as these market participants forgo any potential economic benefits that
may have resulted from transacting in the SBS market. The Commission preliminarily believes
that several factors mitigate such concerns. First, pursuant to proposed Rule 815(c)(2), an
SBSEF may offer any execution method for Permitted Transactions. Thus, a market participant
engaging in a Permitted Transaction may choose to use an execution method that reveals only
the desired amount of information about trading interest. Second, pursuant to proposed Rule
815(a)(2), and as discussed earlier, an SBSEF would be required to offer two execution methods
for Required Transactions (limit order book and RFQ-to-3). Thus, market participants have
flexibility in the degree of pre-trade transparency they wish to employ, which should attenuate
potential concerns associated with revealing too much information about trading interest.
The Commission preliminarily believes that the proposed Rules 829 and 830 may reduce
the risk of trading disruptions on SBSEFs that may otherwise prevent market participants from
impounding information into SBS prices through market activity (e.g., order submission), and
thus could improve the price efficiency in the SBS market.
F. Request for comment
The Commission is requesting comment regarding the economic analysis set forth herein.
To the extent possible, the Commission requests that market participants and other commenters
provide supporting data and analysis with respect to the benefits, costs, and effects on
competition, efficiency, and capital formation of adopting the proposed rules and amendments or
any reasonable alternatives. In addition, the Commission asks commenters to consider the
following questions:
212. What additional qualitative or quantitative information should the Commission
include as part of the baseline for its economic analysis of the proposed rules and
332
amendments?
213. What additional information can the Commission use to estimate the costs and
benefits of implementing the proposed rules and amendments?
214. Has the Commission considered all relevant aspects of the proposed rules and
amendments? Has the Commission accurately described the costs and benefits of the
proposed rules and amendments? Why or why not? Please identify any other
benefits associated with the proposed rules and amendments in detail. Please identify
any costs associated with the proposed rules and amendments that the Commission
has not identified. If possible, please provide quantification or data that would enable
a quantification of such effects.
215. What are the economic effects of the discussed reasonable alternatives? Are there
any additional reasonable alternatives that the Commission should include? If so,
please identify such alternatives and any economic effects associated with such
alternatives. If possible, please provide data that would enable a quantification of
such effects.
216. The Commission preliminarily estimates that five CFTC-registered SEFs likely
would register as SBSEFs. How many entities do you believe will seek to register
with the Commission as SBSEFs? Of these, how many would be CFTC-registered
SEFs seeking to be dually-registered SEF/SBSEFs and how many would be
standalone SBSEFs?
217. Are SBS products being traded on unregistered SBSEFs? If so, please provide
data on (1) the types of SBS that are being traded on unregistered SBSEFs; and (2)
the volume of such SBS that are being traded on unregistered SBSEFs.
333
218. Does the Commission’s description of SBS trade execution practices accurately
capture the trade execution practices currently used in the trading of SBS? If not,
please identify and describe the execution practices that are currently used to trade
SBS.
219. What costs would CFTC-registered SEFs incur if they elect to register and operate
as SBSEFs under proposed Regulation SE? Would these entities incur costs
associated with the de novo formation of an SBSEF? Alternatively, would they incur
costs associated with listing SBS products on their venues and making limited
changes to their systems, policies, and procedures to the extent that the proposed rules
differ from analogous CFTC rules? Are there other costs that have not been
identified?
220. What would be the likely fees and costs associated with transacting on SBSEFs?
What are the fees and costs associated with transacting on unregulated trading venues
that exist in today’s OTC derivatives market?
XX. Paperwork Reduction Act
Certain provisions of the proposed rules contain new “collection of information”
requirements within the meaning of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 (“PRA”).462 The
Commission is submitting the proposed collection of information to the Office of Management
and Budget (“OMB”) for review in accordance with 44 U.S.C. 3507(d) and 5 CFR 1320.11. The
title of the new collection of information is “Regulation SE.” As proposed, Regulation SE would
create a regime for the registration and regulation of SBSEFs and address other issues relating to
 462 44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq.
334
SBS execution.
In addition, the Commission is proposing to amend Rule 3a-1 under the SEA to exempt a
registered SBSEF from the statutory definition of “exchange.” Furthermore, the Commission is
proposing new Rule 15a-12 under the SEA that, while affirming that an SBSEF also would be a
broker under the SEA, would exempt a registered SBSEF from certain broker requirements
under the SEA.
Proposed Regulation SE would include rules regarding the registration of a prospective
SBSEF on Form SBSEF, the filing of new or amended rules or new products with the
Commission, and rules harmonizing the Commission’s SBSEF regime with the CFTC’s parallel
SEF regime.
463 An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond
to, a collection of information unless the agency displays a currently valid OMB control number.
A. Summary of collection of information
The proposed rules and rule amendments would include a collection of information
within the meaning of the PRA for SBSEFs that would be required to comply with Regulation
SE and file a Form SBSEF with the Commission. In addition, proposed Rule 833 would include
a collection of information within the meaning of the PRA for persons that wish to seek an
exemption order under that rule, and proposed Rule 834 would include a collection of
information within the meaning of the PRA for SBS exchanges (in addition to SBSEFs).
Many of the proposed rules that comprise Regulation SE are modelled after analogous
CFTC rules with only minor edits to reflect differences between the statutory regimes of the two
 463 See supra Section III. As proposed, Regulation SE contains 36 separately designated
rules (800 to 835, inclusive), which (if adopted) would be located in 17 CFR 242; a Form
SBSEF (with instructions); and a submission cover sheet (with instructions). If adopted,
the form and the submission cover sheet would be located in 17 CFR 249.
335
agencies. Entities that are most likely to register with the Commission as SBSEFs are those
already registered with the CFTC as SEFs. Such entities have made substantial investments in
systems, policies, and procedures to comply with and adapt to the regulatory system developed
by the CFTC. Harmonization would allow such dually-registered entities to utilize their existing
systems, policies, and procedures to comply with the Commission’s SBSEF rules, and SEF
members would likely face only marginal additional burdens to trade SBS as well as swaps on
those SEF/SBSEFs. In light of these factors, the Commission has based many of its paperwork
burden estimates on CFTC burden estimates calculated for analogous CFTC rules. The CFTC
estimated PRA burdens by aggregating the burdens produced by a group of related rules, as
explained more fully in Section XX(D) below. In most cases, the Commission has modelled its
methodology, assumptions, and calculations on those of the CFTC, while making adjustments
that reflect differences between the scale of the market for swaps relative to the market for SBS,
such as the estimated number of SBSEFs, number of SBS market participants, and number of
SBS transactions, as necessary.
The following is a summary of the rules contained in proposed Regulation SE.
464 The
 464 See supra Section IV(A) (discussing proposed Rule 800); Section IV(B) (discussing
proposed Rule 801); Section IV(C) (discussing proposed Rule 802); Section V(A)
(discussing the registration provisions contained in proposed Rule 803); Section V(B)
(discussing Form SBSEF); Section VI(A) (discussing proposed Rule 804); Section VI(B)
(discussing proposed Rule 805); Section VI(C) (discussing proposed Rule 806); Section
VI(D) (discussing proposed Rule 807); Section VI(F) (discussing proposed Rule 808);
Section VI(G) (discussing proposed Rule 809); Section VI(H) (discussing proposed Rule
810); Section VII(A) (discussing proposed Rule 811); Section VII(B) (discussing
proposed Rule 812); Section VII(C) (discussing proposed Rule 813); Section VII(D)
(discussing proposed Rule 814); Section VII(E) (discussing proposed Rule 815); Section
VII(F) (discussing proposed Rule 816); Section VII(G) (discussing proposed Rule 817);
Section VIII(A) (discussing proposed Rule 818); Section VIII(B) (discussing proposed
336
paperwork burdens associated with proposed Regulation SE are discussed in Section XX(D)
below.
Proposed Rule
Number and Title
Overview of Proposed Rule Paperwork
Burden
Created?
800—Scope would state that the provisions of this section shall apply to
every SBSEF that is registered or is applying to become
registered as an SBSEF under section 3D of the SEA
No
801—Applicable
provisions
would require an SBSEF to comply with all applicable
Commission rules, including any related definitions and
cross-referenced sections
No
802—Definitions Definitions No
803—Requirements
and procedures for
registration
would set out a process for registering with the
Commission as an SBSEF, including the submission of
Form SBSEF
Yes
804—Listing
products for trading
by certification
procedures by which an SBSEF, via self-certification, may
list a product for trading
Yes465
805—Voluntary
submission of new
products for
Commission review
and approval
procedures for voluntary submission of new products for
Commission review and approval
Yes

Rule 819); Section VIII(C) (discussing proposed Rule 820); Section VIII(D) (discussing
proposed Rule 821); Section VIII(E) (discussing proposed Rule 822); Section VIII(F)
(discussing proposed Rule 823); Section VIII(G) (discussing proposed Rule 824); Section
VIII(H) (discussing proposed Rule 825); Section VIII(I) (discussing proposed Rule 826);
Section VIII(J) (discussing proposed Rule 827); Section VIII(K) (discussing proposed
Rule 828); Section VIII(L) (discussing proposed Rule 829); Section VIII(M) (discussing
proposed Rule 830); Section VIII(N) (discussing proposed Rule 831); Section IX(A)
(discussing proposed Rule 832); Section IX(B) (discussing proposed Rule 833); Section
X (discussing proposed Rule 834); Section XI (discussing the notice required by
proposed Rule 835); Section XII (discussing proposed amendments to Rule 3a1-1);
Section XIII (discussing proposed Rule 15a-12); Section XVI (discussing new rules and
proposed amendments to the Commission’s Rules of Practice).
465 Each of the filings that would be required by proposed Rules 804 through 807, 809, and
816 would have to include a submission cover sheet that is also being proposed herein.
Because the cover sheet is an integral part of the filing—it is the mechanism whereby an
SBSEF would inform the Commission what type of filing is enclosed—the paperwork
burdens for the cover sheet are not estimated separately from the paperwork burden of the
substantive filing.
337
806—Voluntary
submission of rules
for Commission
review and
approval
procedures for voluntary submission of new rules or rule
amendments for Commission review and approval
Yes
807—Selfcertification of
rules
whereby an SBSEF can implement a new rule or rule
amendment via self-certification
Yes
808—Availability
of public
information
would set out the information that will be made public with
respect to applications to become an SBSEF as well as
filings relating to rules and products
No
809—Staying of
certification and
tolling of review
period pending
jurisdictional
determination
would provide for a stay of a product certification or
tolling of a review period for a product where it is unclear
whether the product should be classified as an SBS under
the jurisdiction of the SEC or a swap under the jurisdiction
of the CFTC pending the issuance of a joint interpretation
by the SEC and CFTC clarifying which agency has
jurisdiction over the product
Yes
810—Product
filings by SBSEFs
that are not yet
registered and by
dormant SBSEFs
would provide that an applicant for registration as an
SBSEF may submit for Commission review and approval
an SBS’s terms and conditions or rules prior to listing the
product as part of its application for registration
Yes
811—Information
relating to SBSEF
compliance
would provide that an SBSEF shall submit information to
the Commission that the Commission requests, including
demonstrations that the SBSEF is in compliance with one
or more Core Principles, notification of a transfer 50% or
more of the equity interest in the SBSEF, and information
about pending legal proceedings
Yes
812—
Enforceability
would provide that a transaction entered into on or
pursuant to the rules of an SBSEF shall not be void,
voidable, subject to rescission, otherwise invalidated, or
rendered unenforceable because of a violation by the
SBSEF of Section 3D of the SEA or the Commission’s
rules thereunder; also would require an SBSEF to provide
each counterparty to a transaction on the SBSEF with a
written record of all the terms of the transaction that were
agreed to on the SBSEF
Yes
813—Prohibited
use of data
collected for
regulatory purposes
would provide that an SBSEF shall not use for business or
marketing purposes any proprietary data or personal
information that it collects or receives, from or on behalf of
any person, for the purpose of fulfilling its regulatory
obligations, without such person’s consent; also would
require the SBSEF not to condition access to its markets on
such consent and provide that the SBSEF may, where
No
338
necessary for regulatory purposes, share such data or
information with other registered SBSEFs or exchanges
814—Entity
operating both a
national securities
exchange and
SBSEF
would provide that an entity that intends to operate both a
national securities exchange and an SBSEF shall separately
register the two facilities pursuant to Section 6 of the SEA
and Rule 803, respectively; also would provide that a
national securities exchange shall, to the extent that the
exchange also operates an SBSEF and uses the same
electronic trade execution system, identify whether
electronic trading of SBS is taking place on or through the
national securities exchange or the SBSEF
No
815—Methods of
execution for
Required and
Permitted
Transactions
would provide that a Required Transaction must be
executed on an SBSEF through an order book or RFQ
system, whereas a Permitted Transaction can be executed
in any manner; also would require an SBSEF to maintain
rules and procedures that facilitate the resolution of error
trades and that an SBSEF shall not generally disclose the
identity of a counterparty to an SBS that is executed
anonymously and intended to be cleared
Yes
816—Trade
execution
requirement and
exemptions
therefrom
would set out a process and standards for an SBSEF to
MAT an SBS; also would establish certain exemptions
from the trade execution requirement
Yes
817—Trade
execution
compliance
schedule
would provide that an SBS transaction shall be required to
be executed on an SBS exchange or SBSEF upon the later
of a determination by the Commission that the SBS is
required to be cleared and 30 days after a MAT
determination submission or certification for that SBS is
approved or certified, respectively
No
818—Core
Principle 1
(Compliance with
Core Principles)
would require a registered SBSEF to comply with the
SEA’s Core Principles for SBSEFs
Yes
819—Core
Principle 2
(Compliance with
rules)
would require a registered SBSEF to establish, comply
with, and enforce its own rules—including rules regarding
market access; rules governing trading, trade processing,
and participation that will deter abuses; rules governing the
operation of the SBSEF; and rules to capture and retain an
audit trail—and have the capacity to detect, investigate,
and enforce those rules; also would require an SBSEF to
establish rules that generally prohibit employees from
trading any covered interest or disclosing any material,
non-public information obtained as a result of their
employment by the SBSEF; also would require an SBSEF
Yes
339
to maintain in effect rules that render a person ineligible to
serve on the SBSEF’s disciplinary committees, arbitration
panels, oversight panels, or governing board who has been
found to have committed enumerated offenses
820—Core
Principle 3 (SBS
not readily
susceptible to
manipulation)
would require that SBSEF to permit trading only in SBS
that are not readily susceptible to manipulation
Yes
821—Core
Principle 4
(Monitoring of
trading and trade
processing)
would require an SBSEF to establish and enforce rules
detailing trading and trade processing procedures, and to
monitor trading and market activity to prevent
manipulation, price distortion, and delivery or settlement
disruptions; also would require an SBSEF to demonstrate
that it has access to sufficient information to assess
whether trading on its market or in the underlying assets or
indexes is being used to affect prices on its market
Yes
822—Core
Principle 5 (Ability
to obtain
information)
would require an SBSEF to establish and enforce rules that
would allow it to obtain any information necessary to
comply with Section 3D of the SEA and to provide that
information to the Commission on request
Yes
823—Core
Principle 6
(Financial integrity
of transactions)
would require an SBSEF to establish and enforce rules for
ensuring the financial integrity of SBS on its facility,
including the clearance and settlement of the SBS; also
would require that SBS that are required to be cleared shall
be cleared by a registered clearing agency (or a clearing
agency that has obtained an exemption from clearing
agency registration to provide central counterparty services
for SBS), that the SBSEF provide for minimum financial
standards for its members, and that the SBSEF monitor its
members for compliance with those standards
Yes
824—Core
Principle 7
(Emergency
authority)
would require an SBSEF to adopt rules to provide for the
exercise of emergency authority, in order for the SBSEF to
maintain fair and orderly trading and prevent or address
manipulation or disruptive trading practices
Yes
825—Core
Principle 8 (Timely
publication of
trading
information)
would require an SBSEF to make public timely
information on price, trading volume, and other trading
data on SBS transactions, as required by Regulation SBSR,
and to publish on its website a Daily Market Data Report
Yes
826—Core
Principle 9
(Recordkeeping
and reporting)
would set forth recordkeeping and reporting obligations for
SBSEFs and require an SBSEF to maintain records of all
activities relating to the business of the facility, including a
complete audit trail, in a form and manner acceptable to
the Commission for a period of five years
Yes
340
827—Core
Principle 10
(Antitrust
considerations)
would provide that, unless necessary or appropriate to
achieve the purposes of the SEA, an SBSEF shall not adopt
any rules or take any actions that result in any
unreasonable restraint of trade or impose any material
anticompetitive burden on trading or clearing
No
828—Core
Principle 11
(Conflicts of
interest)
would require an SBSEF to establish and enforce rules to
minimize conflicts of interest in its decision-making
process and establish a process for resolving such conflicts
Yes
829—Core
Principle 12
(Financial
resources)
would require an SBSEF to have adequate financial,
operational, and managerial resources to discharge its
responsibilities; also would set forth the standards used to
calculate the adequacy of such resources; and require
certain reports to the Commission
Yes
830—Core
Principle 13
(System
safeguards)
would require an SBSEF to establish and maintain a
program of automated systems and risk analysis to identify
and minimize sources of operational risk, through the
development of appropriate controls and procedures; also
would require an SBSEF to establish and maintain
emergency procedures, backup facilities, and a plan for
disaster recovery; conduct periodic tests to verify those
resources are sufficient; and notify the Commission
promptly of any cyber incidents and material planned
changes to the SBSEF’s systems safeguards
Yes
831—Core
Principle 14
(Designation of
CCO)
would require an SBSEF to designate a CCO and set forth
regulatory and reporting obligations for the CCO
Yes
832—Cross-border
mandatory trade
execution
would explain when the SEA’s trade execution
requirement applies to a cross-border SBS transaction
No
833—Cross-border
exemptions
would provide for a process by which the Commission,
upon making the requisite findings, could grant exemptions
from the SEA definitions of “exchange,” “security-based
swap execution facility,” and “broker” and exempt crossborder SBS from the SEA’s trade execution requirement
Yes
834—Mitigation of
conflicts of interest
of SBSEFs and
SBS exchanges
would provide that each SBSEF and SBS exchange must
create and maintain rules to mitigate conflicts of interest
between SBSEFs and SBS exchanges and their members,
including by prohibiting members from owning 20% or
more of the voting securities of an SBSEF or SBS
exchange, and from exercising disproportionate influence
in disciplinary proceedings; also would require each
SBSEF and SBS exchange to submit to the Commission
after every governing board election a list of each
Yes
341
governing board’s members, the groups they represent, and
how the composition of the board complies with the
requirements of Rule 834
835—Notice to
Commission by
SBSEF of final
disciplinary action
or denial or
limitation of access
would provide that, if an SBSEF issues a final disciplinary
action against a member, denies or conditions membership,
or denies or limits access of a person to any services
offered by the SBSEF, the SBSEF shall file a notice of
such action with the Commission within 30 days and serve
a copy on the affected person
Yes
3a1-1 proposed
amendments
would exempt from the SEA definition of “exchange” a
registered SBSEF that provides a market place for no
securities other than SBS, and an entity that has registered
with the Commission as a clearing agency and limits its
exchange functions to operation of a trading session that is
designed to further the accuracy of end-of-day valuations
No
15a-12—
Exemption for
certain SBSEFs
from certain broker
requirements
would exempt a registered SBSEF from certain broker
requirements while affirming that an SBSEF is a broker
under the SEA
No
Proposed rules and
amendments to the
Commission’s
Rules of Practice
new rules and amendments to the Rules of Practice to
allow persons who are aggrieved by a final disciplinary
action, a denial or conditioning of membership, or a denial
or limitation of access by an SBSEF to seek an application
for review by the Commission
No**
** The Commission finds, in accordance with Section 553(b)(3)(A) of the Administrative
Procedure Act (“APA”), 5 U.S.C. 553(b)(3)(A), that the proposed revisions to the
Commission’s Rules of Practice relate solely to agency organization, procedure, or
practice. They are therefore not subject to the provisions of the APA requiring notice,
opportunity for public comment, and publication. However, the Commission believes
that it would be useful to publish the rules for notice and comment. To the extent that
these rules relate to agency information collections during the conduct of administrative
proceedings, they are exempt from review under the PRA.
B. Proposed use of information
1. Registration requirements and Form SBSEF
Proposed Regulation SE would impose various requirements relating to SBSEF
342
registration, which are set forth in proposed Rule 803.
466
The information collected pursuant to these proposed rules would enhance the ability of
the Commission to determine whether to approve the registration of an entity as an SBSEF; to
monitor and oversee SBSEFs; to determine that SBSEFs initially comply, and continue to
operate in compliance, with the SEA, including the Core Principles applicable to SBSEFs; to
carry out its statutorily mandated oversight functions; and to maintain accurate and updated
information regarding SBSEFs. Because the registration information would be publicly
available, it could also be useful to an SBSEF’s members, other market participants, other
regulators, and the public generally.
2. Requirements for SBSEFs to establish rules
Various provisions of proposed Regulation SE would require SBSEFs to establish certain
rules, policies, and procedures to comply with applicable requirements of the SEA and the
Commission’s rules thereunder.
467 The rules also would help an SBSEF’s members to
understand and comply with requirements of the SBSEF.
3. Reporting requirements for SBSEFs
Various provisions of proposed Regulation SE would require SBSEFs and certain other
persons to submit reports or provide specified information.468 This information generally would
 466 See, e.g., proposed Rule 803(b)(1) (requiring an entity that wishes to register with the
Commission as an SBSEF to submit a Form SBSEF).
467 See, e.g., proposed Rule 819(a)(2) (requiring an SBSEF to establish and enforce trading,
trade processing, and participation rules).
468 See, e.g., proposed Rule 829 (requiring an SBSEF, quarterly or upon Commission
request, to provide the Commission a report that includes the amount of financial
resources necessary to meet the requirements of Rule 829).
343
be used by the Commission in its oversight of SBSEFs and the SBS markets; certain of the
information to be collected could be used by market participants to confirm their SBS
transactions.
4. Recordkeeping required under Regulation SE
Proposed Regulation SE would require an SBSEF to keep specified records.469 The audit
trail information required to be maintained under proposed Regulation SE would aid the SBSEF
in detecting and deterring fraudulent and manipulative acts with respect to trading on its market,
as well as help it to fulfill the statutory requirement in Core Principle 4 that an SBSEF monitor
trading in SBS, including through comprehensive and accurate trade reconstructions. In
addition, Commission access to these records would provide a valuable tool to help the
Commission carry out its oversight responsibility over SBSEFs and the SBS markets in general.
5. Timely publication of trading information requirement for SBSEFs
Proposed Regulation SE would impose certain publication burdens on SBSEFs in
proposed Rule 825.
470
The requirement contained in proposed Rule 825 that an SBSEF have the capacity to
electronically capture, transmit, and disseminate information on price, trading volume, and other
trading data on all SBS executed on or through the SBSEF would assist the SBSEF in carrying
out its regulatory responsibilities under the SEA and enable the SBSEF to comply with
reasonable requests to provide information to others. Furthermore, proposed Rule 825 would
 469 See proposed Rule 826 (requiring an SBSEF to maintain records of all activities relating
to the business of the facility, including a complete audit trail, and to report information
to the Commission upon request).
470 See proposed Rule 825 (requiring an SBSEF to make publicly available a “Daily Market
Data Report”).
344
require an SBSEF to publish a Daily Market Data Report that is designed to provide market
observers with a daily snapshot of market activity on the SBSEF.
6. Rule filing and product filing processes for SBSEFs
Proposed Regulation SE would establish various filing requirements applicable to
SBSEFs. Proposed Rules 804 and 805 would provide mechanisms for an SBSEF to submit
filings for new products that they seek to list either through a self-certification process or by
voluntarily requesting approval of the Commission, respectively. Proposed Rules 806 and 807
would require an SBSEF to submit new rule or rule amendments either through a selfcertification process or by voluntarily requesting approval of the Commission, respectively.
Proposed Rule 808 would address the public availability of certain information in an
application to register as an SBSEF and SBSEF filings made under the self-certification
procedures or pursuant to Commission review and approval. Proposed Rule 809 would establish
procedures for addressing a situation where an SBSEF wishes to list a product and it is unclear
whether the product is an SBS or swap (i.e., whether it properly falls under the jurisdiction of the
SEC or the CFTC). Proposed Rule 810 would provide that an applicant for registration as an
SBSEF may submit for Commission review and approval an SBS’s terms and conditions or rules
prior to listing the product as part of its application for registration.
The information that would be collected under proposed Rules 804 and 805 would help
the Commission assess whether an SBS listed by an SBSEF complies with relevant provisions of
the SEA. In addition, this information would assist the Commission in overseeing the SBSEF’s
compliance with its regulatory obligations generally and to learn about developments in the SBS
product market. Proposed Rules 804 and 805 also would provide a mechanism whereby market
participants, other SBSEFs, other regulators, and the public generally could learn what products
345
an SBSEF intends to list, and to obtain information regarding such products.
The information that would be collected under proposed Rules 806 and 807 would help
the Commission assess whether a new rule or rule amendment of an SBSEF complies with
relevant provisions of the SEA, and assist the Commission in overseeing the SBSEF’s
compliance with its regulatory obligations generally. Proposed Rules 806 and 807 also would
provide a mechanism whereby an SBSEF’s members (and prospective members) could learn
what new rules or rule amendments the SBSEF intends to apply in its market.
The information collected under proposed Rules 809 and 810 would help the
Commission assess an SBSEF’s compliance with relevant provisions of the SEA, and assist the
Commission in overseeing the SBSEF’s compliance with its regulatory obligations. This
information also would be useful to the SBSEF’s members, because they would be subject to
such new or amended rules or products and thus would have an interest in learning about those
rules or products. Other market participants, other SBSEFs, and other regulators, as well as the
public generally, may find information about proposed new or amended rules or products useful.
7. Requirements relating to the CCO
Proposed Regulation SE includes Rule 831 that would set out requirements relating to an
SBSEF’s CCO.
The information that would be collected under proposed Rule 831 would help ensure
compliance by SBSEFs with relevant provisions of the SEA and assist the Commission in
overseeing SBSEFs generally. The Commission could use the annual compliance report to help
it evaluate whether an SBSEF is carrying out its statutorily-mandated regulatory obligations and,
among other things, to discern the scope of any denials of access or refusals to grant access by
the SBSEF and to obtain information on the status of the SBSEF’s regulatory compliance
346
program. The SBSEF’s fourth-quarter financial report would provide the Commission with
important information on the financial health of the SBSEF.
8. Surveillance systems requirements for SBSEFs
The proposed rules that would require an SBSEF to maintain surveillance systems and to
monitor trading471 are designed to promote compliance by an SBSEF with its obligations under
the SEA to oversee trading on its market, and to prevent manipulation and other unlawful
activity or disruption of its market.
C. Respondents
The respondents subject to the collection of information burdens associated with
proposed Regulation SE would be: (1) SBSEFs (and entities wishing to register with the
Commission as SBSEFs); (2) in the case of Rule 833, persons that seek an exemption order
under that rule; and (3) in the case of Rule 834, SBS exchanges.
Currently there are no registered SBSEFs. Based on the number of SEFs registered with
the CFTC that trade index CDS (the closest analog to single-name CDS, which is likely to be the
product most frequently traded on SEC-registered SBSEFs) and general industry information, the
Commission preliminarily estimates that five entities will seek to register as SBSEFs and thus
become subject to the collection of information requirements of these proposed rules.
The Commission preliminarily estimates that three persons would request exemption
 471 See, e.g., proposed Rule 819(d)(3) (requiring an SBSEF to establish and maintain
sufficient compliance staff and resources to ensure that it can conduct effective audit trail
reviews, trade practice surveillance, market surveillance, and real-time market
monitoring).
347
orders under one or both paragraphs472 of proposed Rule 833.473 The CFTC has granted three
exemptions similar to those contemplated by proposed Rule 833,
474 which suggests that the
number of jurisdictions having organized trading venues for swap and SBS products that overlap
with products traded on similar venues in the United States is not large.
The Commission preliminarily estimates that three entities will operate as SBS
exchanges. These are likely to be existing national securities exchanges that, in the future, seek
to list SBS and thereby become SBS exchanges.
The Commission considered whether any provision of proposed Regulation SE would
impose any burdens (as defined in the PRA) on SBSEF members, but has determined that they
would not.
D. Total annual reporting and recordkeeping burden
1. Overview
The CFTC, based on experience gained in developing rules for SEFs and regulating the
SEF market, over the years has developed, refined, and received approval from OMB for
paperwork burden hours estimates, both for SEF rules directly as well as for ancillary rules on
which various rules in proposed Regulation SE are modelled.
475 Those estimates are presented in
 472 See supra note 254.
473 The Commission anticipates that such persons could include foreign SBS trading venues,
foreign authorities that license and regulate those trading venues, or covered persons (as
defined in proposed Rule 832) who are members of such trading venues.
474 See supra note 244.
475 See Core Principles and Other Requirements for Swap Execution Facilities (May 17,
2013), 78 FR 33476, 33548-49 (June 4, 2013) (Final Rule PRA for CFTC Par 37); Swap
Execution Facility Requirements (November 27, 2020), 85 FR 82313, 24 (December 18,
2020) (Final Rule PRA for § 36.1); Core Principles and Other Requirements for Swap
348
the form of aggregate totals for compliance with:
• Part 37 of the CFTC regulations regarding initial registration requirements applicable to
SEFs;
• Part 37 regarding other requirements applicable to SEFs, including the statutory Core

Execution Facilities: OMB Control Number 3038-0074 Supporting Statements (last
updated July 26, 2021), available at https://omb.report/omb/3038-0074 (PRA Supporting
Statements for CFTC Core Principles for SEFs, § 36.1); Provisions Common to
Registered Entities (July 19, 2011), 76 FR 44776, 89-90 (July 27, 2011) (Final Rule PRA
for CFTC Part 40); Part 40, Provisions Common to Registered Entities: OMB Control
Number 3038-0093 Supporting Statements (last updated February 24, 2021), available at
https://omb.report/omb/3038-0093 (PRA Supporting Statements for CFTC Part 40,
§ 36.1); Notification of Pending Legal Proceedings: OMB Control Number 3038-0033
Supporting Statements (last updated August 24, 2018), available at
https://omb.report/omb/3038-0033 (PRA Supporting Statements for §§ 1.60(a), (c), and
(e)); Adaptation of Regulations To Incorporate Swaps (October 16, 2012), 77 FR 66288,
306-08 (November 2, 2012) (Final Rule PRA for §§ 1.59 and 1.37(c)); Recordkeeping
(May 23, 2017), 82 FR 24479, 85 (May 30, 2017) (Final Rule PRA for § 1.31);
Adaptation of Regulations to Incorporate Swaps-Exclusion of Utility Operations-Related
Swaps with Utility Special Entities from De Minimis Threshold: OMB Control Number
3038-0090 Supporting Statements (last updated July 1, 2020), available at
https://omb.report/omb/3038-0090 (PRA Supporting Statements for §§ 1.31, 1.37(c),
1.59, and 1.67); Service on Self-Regulatory Organization Governing Boards or
Committees by Persons with Disciplinary Histories (February 27, 1990), 55 FR 7884, 90
(March 6, 1990) (Final Rule PRA for § 1.63); Final Rule and Rule Amendments
Concerning Composition of Various Self-Regulatory Organization Governing Boards and
Major Disciplinary Committees (June 29, 1993), 58 FR 37644, 53 (July 13, 1993) (Final
Rule PRA for § 1.64); Voting by Interested Members of Self-Regulatory Organization
Governing Boards and Committees (December 23, 1998), 64 FR 16, 22 (January 4, 1999)
(Final Rule PRA for § 1.69); Rules Pertaining to Contract Markets and Their Members:
OMB Control Number 3038-0022 Supporting Statements (last updated December 21,
2010), available at https://omb.report/omb/3038-0022 (PRA Supporting Statements for
§§ 1.63, 1.64, and 1.69); Swap Data Recordkeeping and Reporting Requirements
(December 20, 2011), 77 FR 2136, 71-76 (January 13, 2012) (Final Rule PRA for
§ 45.2); Swap Data Recordkeeping and Reporting Requirements: OMB Control Number
3038-0096 Supporting Statements (last updated March 16, 2021), available at
https://omb.report/omb/3038-0096 (PRA Supporting Statements for § 45.2); Repeal of
the Exempt Commercial Market and Exempt Board of Trade Exemptions (September 28,
2015), 80 FR 59575, 76 (October 2, 2015) (Final Rule PRA for § 15.05).
349
Principles;
• Part 40 of the CFTC regulations regarding requirements applicable to SEFs (and other
CFTC-registered entities); and
• §§ 1.60(a), 1.60(c), 1.60(e), 36.1, 1.59, 1.63, 1.67, 15.05, 1.37(c), 1.64, and 1.69
regarding requirements applicable to SEFs (and other CFTC-registered entities).
The rules applicable to SBSEFs would be, with limited exceptions discussed above,
substantively similar to those applicable to SEFs. Therefore, the Commission is basing its
preliminary estimates for the paperwork burdens for SBSEFs on the CFTC’s paperwork burden
calculations for analog rules that apply to SEFs, which have been approved by OMB.
476
However, in certain cases, the paperwork burdens estimated by the CFTC are scaled down for
SBSEFs to account for the likelihood that there will be fewer SBSEFs than SEFs and the SBS
business of dually registered SEF/SBSEFs is likely to be smaller than the swap business.
Although there are minor differences between the CFTC rules and the proposed
Commission rules, the Commission does not believe it needs to substantially deviate from the
CFTC’s estimates of aggregated burden hours for compliance (beyond scaling back the CFTC’s
estimates to account for fewer SBSEFs than SEFs, and the smaller size of the SBS market
relative to the swap market). These minor differences between the CFTC’s existing rules for
SEFs and the Commission’s proposed rules for SBSEFs are prompted, in some cases, by minor
 476 Proposed Rule 835, which would require SBSEFs to file with the Commission notices of
final disciplinary actions and denials and limitations of access, is not based on a CFTC
rule but rather on an existing Commission rule that imposes a similar filing requirement
on SROs. Therefore, the Commission is utilizing the burden estimates in its rulemaking
for SROs to estimate the burdens of this rule for SBSEFs.
350
differences between the statutory provisions that apply to SEFs under the CEA and the statutory
provisions that apply to SBSEFs under the SEA, or, in other cases, by differences between the
swap market and SBS market. In either case, however, the Commission preliminarily anticipates
that the burdens on SBSEFs would be substantially similar to the burdens set out in the CFTC
estimates, which serve as the basis for the Commission’s estimates.477 Furthermore, the
Commission preliminarily believes that basing the burden estimates for SBSEFs on the CFTC’s
estimates for SEFs would be more accurate than using burden hours estimates for any other
entity that the Commission currently regulates (e.g., national securities exchanges) because
SBSEFs share many more similarities with SEFs than they do with any other SEC-registered
entities.
The Commission anticipates that most if not all entities that seek to register with the
Commission as SBSEFs will also register, or will already be registered, with the CFTC as SEFs.
With a few exceptions, the rules being proposed by the Commission are adapted from existing
rules of the CFTC. With these proposed rules, the Commission intends to obtain comparable
regulatory benefits as the CFTC rules while imposing only marginal additional burdens on
 477 The Commission notes that, when the CFTC adopted the SEF rules in 2013, the CFTC
took a similar approach to burden hours estimation. The CFTC relied on the aggregate
burden hours for three types of entities that it regulated (DCMs, derivatives transaction
execution facilities, and certain exempt commercial markets) and applied those burden
hours to SEFs unadjusted, even though there are differences between the regulations that
govern SEFs and those that govern the other entities. The CFTC noted that those entities,
like SEFs, were subject to certain statutory core principles and rules thereunder, and
despite variations in the applicable regulations, it was still appropriate to use the average
aggregate burden number for those entities as the estimate for SEFs without adjustment.
See CFTC, Core Principles and Other Requirements for Swap Execution Facilities, 78
FR at 33548-51.
351
SEF/SBSEFs. However, for purposes of its PRA analysis, the Commission will estimate the
burdens as if a respondent were subject only to the Commission’s rules.
478 The Commission
requests comments on its entire proposed approach to estimating burden hours.479
2. Aggregate burdens for rules modelled after CFTC Part 37 rules
a. Registration requirements for SBSEFs and Form SBSEF
A submission by an entity wishing to register with the Commission as an SBSEF would
be required to be made on Form SBSEF, pursuant to proposed Rule 803, on a one-time basis.
The Commission preliminarily estimates that five entities initially would seek to register with the
Commission as SBSEFs. The Commission estimates the burdens of proposed Rule 803 and
Form SBSEF to be 1,475 hours. These entities would incur initial, one-time burdens, because
once an entity is registered as an SBSEF, its registration obligations are complete. The
Commission’s estimate regarding the initial burden that an entity would incur to file a Form
SBSEF is informed by the estimates made by the CFTC for the completion of Form SEF and
compliance with § 37.3 of the CFTC regulations (which governs registration of SEFs). Proposed
Form SBSEF would request almost exactly the same information as required by Form SEF.
Proposed Rule 803 is substantially similar to § 37.3. The CFTC has estimated that the initial
 478 However, the Commission will note instances where a proposed rule would require an
SBSEF to generate the same paperwork that is already being created pursuant to a CFTC
rule. In such cases, compliance with the existing CFTC requirement would satisfy the
proposed SEC requirement, and in reality there would be few or perhaps even zero
marginal burdens imposed on dually registered SEF/SBSEFs.
479 The burden hours discussed below represent annual/ongoing burdens, with three
exceptions that represent initial, one-time burdens: registration burdens for SBSEFs
under proposed Rule 803, exemption requests regarding foreign SBS trading venues
under proposed Rule 833, and certain rules under proposed Rules 834(b) and (c).
352
compliance burden associated with its registration requirements in § 37.3 and Form SEF to be
295 hours per SEF applicant.
480 For purposes of calculating burden hours, the CFTC considered
the entire SEF application process to constitute a single information collection; the Commission
is utilizing the same approach for SBSEFs. The Commission preliminarily believes that SBSEFs
would prepare Form SBSEF internally. The Commission requests comment on the accuracy of
this estimate.
b. Ongoing compliance with other requirements that are similar
to the remainder of Part 37
The Commission preliminarily estimates the aggregate ongoing annual hour burden for
compliance with all of the proposed SBSEF rules that have analogs in Part 37 to be 1,935
hours.
481 The CFTC has estimated that the compliance burden for all of the sections of Part 37
combined, other than the initial burden of 295 hours per SEF for registration-related compliance
discussed above, to be an ongoing annual burden of 387 hours per SEF.482 With exception of
§ 37.600, which implements a CEA Core Principle for SEFs relating to position limits that is not
in the SEA, every other section of Part 37 has an analog in proposed Regulation SE that is
substantively similar.
483 Therefore, the Commission preliminarily estimates that the aggregate
 480 See OMB, Supporting Statement for New and Revised Information Collections: Core
Principles and Other Requirements for Swap Execution Facilities, OMB Control Number
3038-0074, Attachment A (July 7, 2021), available at https://omb.report/icr/202107-
3038-004/doc/113431800.pdf.
481 1,935 hours = 387 hours (annual burden per respondent) x 5 (number of respondents).
482 See OMB, Supporting Statement for New and Revised Information Collections, OMB
Control Number 3038-0074, at 8 (estimating that on a net basis the total burden hours
imposed on each SEF will be 387 hours).
483 As discussed previously, portions of the CFTC guidance have been incorporated into
certain rules being proposed by the Commission in Regulation SE. The CFTC guidance
353
CFTC estimate of 387 hours per SEF per year serves as a reasonable estimate for the annual
hourly burden on each SBSEF.
As discussed in more detail below, certain SBSEF rules proposed in Regulation SE are
derived from other parts of the CFTC rules (e.g., Part 40) and the burdens for those section will
be based on the appropriate burden hours of the corresponding CFTC part. For reference, the
following table lists all sections of Part 37 and the corresponding proposed SBSEF rule. Please
see above for more detailed descriptions of a particular proposed SBSEF rule.
CFTC Part 37 Section (387
aggregate burden hours per
SEF not including § 37.3
(registration)
Topic Analogous SBSEF Rule #
(387 aggregate burden
hours per SBSEF not
including proposed Rule
803 (registration) and
certain other rules not
modelled on Part 37 rules
(discussed separately in the
following sections)
37.1 scope 800
37.2 applicable provisions 801
37.4 procedures for listing
products
810
37.5 compliance 811
37.6 enforceability 812
37.7 prohibited use of data 813
37.8 entities operating as SEFs
and DCMs
814
37.9 methods of execution 815
37.10 process to make swaps
available for trade
816
37.11 reserved section not applicable
37.12 trade execution compliance
schedule
817
37.100 CP 1 (compliance with 818 (CP1)

clarifies portions of its rules by suggesting means for compliance and does not
fundamentally alter those rules. Therefore, the Commission believes that no adjustments
to the CFTC estimates, on which the Commission is basing its own estimates, would be
appropriate despite adapting that guidance into the Commission’s proposed rules.
354
Core Principles)
37.200 through 37.206 CP 2 (compliance with
rules)
819 (CP2)
37.300 through 37.301 CP 3 (manipulation) 820 (CP3)
37.400 through 37.408 CP 4 (monitoring of
trading and trade
processing)
821 (CP4)
37.500 through 37.504 CP 5 (ability to obtain
information)
822 (CP5)
37.600 through 37.601 CP 6 (position limits) no equivalent requirement
in the SEA; CP numbering
diverges after this point
37.700 through 37.703 CP 7 (financial integrity of
transactions)
823 (CP6)
37.800 through 37.801 CP 8 (emergency
authority)
824 (CP7)
37.900 through 37.901 CP 9 (publication of
trading information)
825 (CP 8)
37.1000 through 37.1001 CP 10 (recordkeeping and
reporting)
826 (CP 9)
37.1100 through 37.1101 CP 11 (anti-trust) 827 (CP10)
37.1200 CP 12 (conflicts of
interest)
828 (CP 11)
37.1300 through 37.1307 CP 13 (financial resources) 829 (CP 12)
37.1400 through 37.1401 CP 14 (system safeguards) 830 (CP 13)
37.1500 through 1501 CP 15 (CCO) 831 (CP 14)
Appendix A (Form SEF) Form SEF Form SBSEF484
Appendix B Guidance relating to Core
Principles
guidance incorporated
throughout proposed rules
818 through 831
3. Aggregate burdens for rules modelled on CFTC Part 40 rules
A number of rules contained in Proposed Regulation SE are modelled after rules in Part
40 of the CFTC’s rules, including §§ 40.2 (Listing products for trading by certification), 40.3
(Voluntary submission of new products for Commission review and approval), 40.5 (Voluntary
submission of rules for Commission review and approval), and 40.6 (Self-certification of rules).
 484 The burdens of registering using Form SBSEF are discussed in the previous section.
355
The Commission is proposing Rules 804, 805, 806, and 807—which are closely modelled on
§§ 40.2, 40.3, 40.5, and 40.6, respectively—in order to harmonize with the procedures that the
CFTC applies to SEFs with respect to establishing new rules and listing products. In addition,
proposed Rule 808 is modelled after § 40.8 and would provide that certain information in a Form
SBSEF application or a rule or product filing would be made publicly available, notwithstanding
the SBSEF’s request for confidential treatment. Proposed Rule 809 is loosely modelled after
§ 40.12 and would set forth a mechanism for a tolling of the period for consideration of a product
pending the issuance by the SEC and the CFTC of joint interpretation clarifying which agency
has jurisdiction over the product.
a. Rule and product filing processes for SBSEFs
Under proposed Rules 804 and 805, an SBSEF would be required to submit filings for
new products that it seeks to list. Under proposed Rules 806 and 807, an SBSEF would be
required to submit rule filings for new rules or rule amendments, including changes to a
product’s terms or conditions. The Commission’s estimate regarding the burdens that an SBSEF
would incur to comply with the proposed rule and product filing processes in proposed Rules
804, 805, 806, and 807 is informed by the estimates made by the CFTC for compliance with
§§ 40.2, 40.3, 40.5, and 40.6, the burden hours for which have been approved by OMB.
485 The
Commission is estimating a total of five SBSEF respondents. The Commission preliminarily
 485 See 75 FR 67282 (November 2, 2010) (CFTC proposal to amend 17 CFR 40.2-40.5);
OMB, Supporting Statement for Information Collection Renewal: OMB Control Number
3038-0093, Attachment A (July 10, 2020), available at https://omb.report/icr/202005-
3038-001/doc/101274002.pdf (noting the estimated average number of hours to burden
hours report is 2 hours, and the number of annual responses from each entity is 100).
356
estimates that the aggregate ongoing annual hourly burden for all SBSEFs to prepare and submit
rule and product filings under proposed Rules 804, 805, 806, and 807 (including the cover
sheet486) would be 300 hours.
Based on the CFTC’s experience with SEFs, the Commission estimates that on average
an SBSEF would incur an ongoing annual burden of 2 hours of work per rule or product filing.
Although the CFTC estimated an average of 100 responses per year per respondent,
487 the
Commission believes that an estimate of 30 responses is appropriate given the more limited
scope of the SBS market, as opposed to the swap market. This would result in a total estimated
ongoing annual burden of 60 hours per respondent488 and 300 hours for all the respondents
annually.489 The Commission solicits comments regarding the accuracy of its estimates.
b. Burdens related to rules modelled after other Part 40 rules
i. Rule 802
Certain definitions contained in proposed Rule 802 are modelled after provisions of Part
 486 Each of the filings that would be required by proposed Rules 804 through 807 would
have to include a submission cover sheet that is modelled on the cover sheet and
instructions used by SEFs in conjunction with analogous filings with the CFTC, with the
submitting entity checking the appropriate box to indicate which type of the filing it is
making. Any burden hours attributable to a respondent completing this cover sheet,
which is an integral part of the filing, are not estimated separately from the paperwork
burden of the substantive filing. Instead, they are contained within the aggregate burden
hours estimate for rule and product filings pursuant to proposed Rules 804 through 807,
which are based upon the CFTC’s estimates. See supra note 465.
487 See id.
488 60 hours = 30 (number of responses per year per respondent) x 2 hours (burden per
response).
489 300 hours = 60 hours (annual burden per respondent pursuant to proposed Rules 804,
805, 806, and 807) x 5 (number of respondents).
357
40. These definitions would not result in any paperwork burden.
ii. Rule 809
Proposed Rule 809 is loosely modelled on § 40.12 of the CFTC’s rules and would apply
in situations where an SBSEF wishes to list a product and it is unclear whether the product
should be classified as an SBS subject to the jurisdiction of the SEC or a swap subject to the
jurisdiction of the CFTC. Proposed Rule 809 would provide that a product certification made by
an SBSEF pursuant to proposed Rule 804 shall be stayed, or the review period for a product that
has been submitted for Commission approval by an SBSEF pursuant to proposed Rule 805 shall
be tolled, upon request for a joint interpretation of whether the product is a swap, SBS, or mixed
swap made pursuant to Rule 3a68-2 under the SEA490 by the SBSEF, the SEC, or the CFTC.
Proposed Rule 809 itself does not include a process for determining whether the SEC or
CFTC has jurisdiction over a product. Proposed Rule 809 would enable the SEC to stay or toll
the product filing while the SEC and CFTC consider a joint interpretation under existing SEA
Rule 3a68-2, the burden hours of which have already been approved by OMB.491 The only
burden imposed on an SBSEF under Rule 809 would be checking a box on the submission cover
sheet if the SBSEF intends to request a joint interpretation from the Commission and the CFTC
 490 17 CFR 240.3a68-2.
491 OMB recently approved an extension without change of the collection for Rule 3a68-2.
See Supporting Statement for the Paperwork Reduction Act New Information Collection
Submission for Rule 3a68-2 (Interpretation of Swaps, Security-Based Swaps, and Mixed
Swaps) and Rule 3a68-4(c) (Process for Determining Regulatory Treatment for Mixed
Swaps), OMB Control Number 3235-0685, Supporting Statement A (December 23,
2021), available at: https://omb.report/icr/202112-3235-018/doc/117438500.pdf.
358
pursuant to SEA Rule 3a68-2.492 The Commission preliminarily estimates that each such
indication would impose a burden of 0.25 hours. Furthermore, the Commission preliminarily
estimates that each SBSEF would make one such indication per year.493 Accordingly, the
aggregate ongoing annual burden for all SBSEFs to comply with Rule 809 would be 1.25
hours.494 The Commission believes that this work, should it be required, would be conducted
internally. The Commission solicits comment as to the accuracy of these estimates.
4. Aggregate burdens for rules modelled after CFTC rules other than
Parts 37 and 40
The proposed rules similar to rules of the CFTC other than Part 37 and Part 40 are
proposed Rules 811(d), 816(e), 819(h), 819(i), 819(j), 819(k), 826(f), and 834. These proposed
rules generate various categories of burdens for SBSEFs or market participants.
a. Rule 811(d)
§ 1.60 of the CFTC’s rules requires a SEF to provide the CFTC with copies of any legal
proceeding to which it is a party, or to which its property or assets is subject.
Paragraph (d) of proposed Rule 811 would adapt paragraphs (a), (c), and (e) of § 1.60 to
apply to SBSEFs. Paragraph (d)(1) would require an SBSEF to provide the Commission a copy

492 See supra Section VI(E).
493 The Commission preliminarily believes that the establishment of a registration regime
and listing procedures for SBSEFs could affect the distribution, but likely not the total
number, of requests for joint interpretations under Rule 3a68-2 of the SEA. SBS
products may be developed in the bilateral market before they are listed on SBSEFs, and
there are incentives to resolving jurisdictional issues before they can develop traction in
the market. Accordingly, requests for a joint interpretation under Rule 3a68-2 could
occur before such products are listed by an SBSEF, and such requests are already
considered in the approved PRA burden estimates for Rule 3a68-2.
494 1.25 hours = 1 (number of responses per year per respondent) x 0.25 hours (burden per
response) x 5 (number of respondents).
359
of the complaint, any dispositive or partially dispositive decision, any notice of appeal filed
concerning such decision, and such further documents as the Commission may thereafter request
filed in any material legal proceeding to which the SBSEF is a party or its property or assets is
subject. Paragraph (d)(2) would require an SBSEF to provide notices of similar actions against
any officer, director, or other official of the SBSEF from conduct in such person’s capacity as an
official of the SBSEF alleging violations of certain enumerated actions.
The Commission preliminarily estimates that an SBSEF would provide the information
required by proposed Rule 811(d) once per year, and that each submission would take 0.20
hours. Thus, the Commission preliminarily estimates that the aggregate ongoing annual burden
for all SBSEFs to comply with requests for documents or information pursuant to proposed Rule
811(d) would be 1 hour.495 The Commission is basing its estimate on the CFTC estimate
included in its submission to OMB for § 1.60 of the CFTC’s rules, for which the CFTC
estimated that each of the 79 entities to which the rule applies makes, on average, one
submission of documents to the Commission per year. The CFTC further estimated that the time
required to prepare one submission is approximately 0.20 hour, totaling 15.8 hours (79 x 0.20)
annually.496
For PRA purposes, the Commission preliminarily believes that it is reasonable to apply
the CFTC’s approach to proposed Rule 811(d). The Commission believes that this work, should
it be required, would be conducted internally. The Commission solicits comment as to the

495 1 (number of responses per year per respondent) x 0.20 hours (burden per response) x 5
(number of respondents) = 1 hour.
496 See OMB, Supporting Statement for New and Revised Information Collections: OMB
Control Number 3038-0033 (August 23, 2018), available at
https://omb.report/icr/201808-3038-004/doc/85625801.pdf.
360
accuracy of these estimates.
b. Rule 819(h)
Paragraph (h) of proposed Rule 819 generally would prohibit persons who are employees
of an SBSEF, or who otherwise might have access to confidential information because of their
role with the SBSEF, from improperly utilizing that information. Proposed Rule 819(h) is
modelled on § 1.59 of the CFTC’s rules. The Commission does not believe that this proposed
rule would result in a paperwork burden.
c. Rule 819(i)
Paragraph (i) of proposed Rule 819 would bar persons with specified disciplinary
histories from serving on the governing board or committees of an SBSEF, and impose certain
other duties on the SBSEF associated with that fundamental requirement. Proposed Rule 819(i)
is modelled on § 1.63 of the CFTC’s rules.
The Commission preliminarily estimates that an SBSEF would provide the information
required by proposed Rule 819(i) once per year, and that each submission would take 79.83
hours. Thus, the Commission preliminarily estimates that the aggregate ongoing annual burden
for all SBSEFs to comply with proposed Rule 819(i) would be 399.15 hours.497 The
Commission is basing its estimate on the one that the CFTC included in its submission to OMB
for its adoption of § 1.63, where the CFTC estimated that each respondent would make, on
average, one submission to the CFTC per year. The CFTC further estimated that the time

497 1 (number of responses per year per respondent) x 79.83 hours (burden per response) x 5
(number of respondents) = 399.15 hours.
361
required to prepare one submission is approximately 79.83 hours.498
For PRA purposes, the Commission preliminarily believes that it is reasonable to apply
the CFTC’s approach to proposed Rule 819(i), and that this work would be conducted internally.
The Commission solicits comment as to the accuracy of these estimates.
d. Rule 819(j)
Paragraph (j) of proposed Rule 819 is modelled on § 1.67 of the CFTC’s rules. Rule
819(j)(1) would provide that, upon any final disciplinary action in which an SBSEF finds that
a member has committed a rule violation that involved a transaction for a customer, whether
executed or not, and that resulted in financial harm to the customer, the SBSEF must promptly
provide written notice of the disciplinary action to the member.
The Commission preliminarily estimates that an SBSEF would need 0.5 hours to prepare
a notice and provide it to a member. This estimate is based on a previous Commission estimate
for the time that it would take to prepare and submit a simple notice.499 The Commission
estimates that these notices would occur once per year at each SBSEF, resulting in an aggregate
ongoing annual burden to comply with proposed Rule 819(j) of 2.5 hours.500 The Commission

498 See CFTC, Service on Self-Regulatory Organization Governing Boards or Committees by
Persons with Disciplinary Histories (February 27, 1990), 55 FR 7884, 7890 (March 6,
1990) (final rule PRA for § 1.63).
499 Proposed Rule 819(j) would not address any of the requirements or process concerning
taking final disciplinary actions; it merely would require that a notice be provided. A
provision of Regulation SCI, Rule 1000(b)(4)(i), also requires providing a simple notice
and the Commission estimated that it would take 0.5 hours to prepare and such a notice.
See Regulation Systems Compliance and Integrity; Final Rule, SEA Release No. 73639
(November 19, 2014), 79 FR 72251, 72381 (December 5, 2014).
500 2.5 hours (0.5 hours of in-house counsel time) x (1 responses per year) x (5 respondents).
The once per year estimate is based on a previous CFTC estimate included in its
submission to OMB for § 1.67 along with other rules.
362
believes that this work, should it be required, would be conducted internally. The Commission
solicits comment as to the accuracy of these estimates.
e. Rule 819(k)
Paragraph (k) of proposed Rule 819 would require non-U.S. persons who trade on an
SBSEF to have an agent for service process, which could be an agent of its own choosing or, by
default, the SBSEF. Proposed Rule 819(k) is modelled on provisions of § 15.05 of the CFTC’s
rules that apply to SEFs. The Commission does not believe that this proposed rule would result
in a paperwork burden.
f. Rule 826(f)
Proposed Rule 826(f) is modelled on § 1.37(c) and would require an SBSEF to keep a
record in permanent form, which shall show the true name, address, and principal occupation or
business of any non-U.S. member that executes transactions on the SBSEF and must, upon
request, provide to the Commission information regarding the name of any person guaranteeing
such transactions or exercising any control over the trading of such non-U.S. member.
The Commission preliminarily estimates that each SBSEF would need to update
information required by Rule 826(f) once per year and that each submission would take 0.4
hours. Thus, the Commission preliminarily estimates that the aggregate ongoing annual burden
for all SBSEFs to comply with requests for documents or information pursuant to proposed Rule
826(f) would be 2 hours.501 The Commission is basing its estimate on the estimate included by
the CFTC in its submission to OMB regarding § 1.37(c), where the CFTC estimated that it would
take a SEF 0.4 hours to prepare each record in accordance with § 1.37(c).

501 1 (number of responses per year per respondent) x 0.40 hours (burden per response) x 5
(number of respondents) = 2 hours.
363
For PRA purposes, the Commission preliminarily believes that it is reasonable to apply
the CFTC’s approach to proposed Rule 826(f). The Commission believes that this work, should
it be required, would be conducted internally. The Commission solicits comment as to the
accuracy of these estimates.
g. Rule 834
Proposed Rule 834 of Regulation SE would implement Section 765 of the Dodd-Frank
Act with respect to SBSEFs and SBS exchanges and, in addition, adapt certain CFTC rules that
are designed to mitigate conflicts of interest at SEFs (and other CFTC-registered entities).
Proposed Rule 834 would provide that each SBSEF and SBS exchange must create and maintain
rules to mitigate conflicts of interest between SBSEFs and SBS exchanges and their members,
including by prohibiting members from owning 20% or more of the voting rights of an SBSEF or
SBS exchange and from exercising disproportionate influence in disciplinary proceedings.
Proposed Rule 834 also would require each SBSEF and SBS exchange to submit to the
Commission after every governing board election a list of each governing board’s members, the
groups they represent, and how the composition of the board complies with the requirements of
Rule 834. Establishing such rules and submitting such lists to the Commission would result in a
paperwork burden for SBSEFs and SBS exchanges.
The Commission preliminarily estimates that proposed Rules 834(b) and (c) together
would have an initial, one-time paperwork burden of 15 hours per entity associated with drafting
and implementing any such rules, for an aggregate one-time paperwork burden of 120 hours.502
 502 1 (number of responses per respondent) x 15 hours (burden per response) x 8 (5 SBSEFs
+ 3 SBS exchanges) = 120 hours.
364
Proposed Rules 834(b) and (c) are substantially similar to proposed Rule 702(c) of Regulation
MC.503 In its PRA analysis for proposed Rule 702(c), the Commission estimated that there
would be a one-time paperwork burden of 15 hours per entity associated with drafting and
implementation of any such rules by each SBSEF or SBS exchange.504
Additionally, the Commission preliminarily estimates that proposed Rule 834(d),
proposed Rule 834(e), and proposed Rule 834(f), combined, would result in an aggregate
ongoing annual paperwork burden of 10 hours.505 Proposed Rules 834(d), (e), and (f) are
substantially similar to proposed Rule 702(h) in Regulation MC in 2010506 and CFTC
§ 1.64(c)(4), CFTC § 1.64(b), and CFTC § 1.64(d), respectively. The Commission is basing its
estimate on the CFTC’s estimate that Rules 1.41(d),
507 1.63, 1.64, and 1.67 would result in an
average annual paperwork burden of 1.25 hours per response that was included in its submission
to OMB.
508
The Commission preliminarily estimates that proposed Rule 834(g) would have an
 503 Regulation MC Proposal, 75 FR at 65916.
504 See id.
505 10 hours = 1 (number of responses per respondent) x 1.25 hours (burden per response) x
8 (number of SBSEF + SBS exchange respondents).
506 Regulation MC Proposal, 75 FR at 65932.
507 While §1.41(d) created an exemption from the requirements of Section 5a(a)(12)(A) of
the CEA for contract market rules not related to terms and conditions, the CFTC did not
break out the portion of the burden hours for which this amendment is responsible.
Therefore, to be conservative, the Commission is including it in its estimate for the
burden hours of proposed Rules 834(d), (e), and (f).
508 See 58 FR 37644, 53.
365
aggregate ongoing annual burden of 16 hours.509 Proposed Rule 834(g) is substantially similar
to § 1.69 of the CFTC’s rules, and the Commission is basing its estimate on the CFTC’s estimate
for § 1.69 of 2 hours per response that was included in its submission to OMB.
510
The Commission does not believe that proposed Rule 834(h) would result in a paperwork
burden not already included in the above estimates. Proposed Rule 834(h) collates into a single
rule the requirements for an SBSEF to file rules to comply with proposed Rule 834. As it has
already described the paperwork burdens of proposed Rules 834(b) through (g), the Commission
does not believe that proposed Rule 834(h) would result in a separate paperwork burden not
already included above. Thus, the total aggregate ongoing annual burden is estimated at 26
hours.511
5. Miscellaneous burdens
a. Rule 833
Proposed Rule 833 would describe how exemptions could be obtained for foreign SBS
trading venues from the SEA definitions of “exchange,” “security-based swap execution
facility,” and “broker” and how SBS executed on a foreign trading venue could become exempt
from the SEA’s trade execution requirement. Based on the CFTC’s experience in the SEF
market,
512 the Commission preliminarily estimates that there would be three requests for an
 509 16 hours = 1 (number of responses per respondent) x 2 hours (burden per response) x 8
(number of SBSEF + SBS exchange respondents).
510 See 64 FR at 16, 22.
511 26 hours = 10 hours (from the second sentence of proposed Rules 834(d), 834(e), and
834(f)) + 16 hours (from proposed Rule 834(g)) + 0 hours (from proposed Rule 834(h).
512 See supra note 244.
366
exemption order under either or both paragraphs (a) and (b) of Rule 833 in the first year and 2
requests in each subsequent year; and that each submission would require an initial, one-time
burden of 80 hours. Once an exemption has been granted to an applicant, no further action is
required. The Commission preliminarily estimates the burden to submit an exemption request
under one or both paragraphs of proposed Rule 833 would be 240 hours in the first year513 and
160 hours in each subsequent year.
514 The Commission solicits comment as to the accuracy of
these estimates.
b. Rule 835
Proposed Rule 835 would provide that, if an SBSEF issues a final disciplinary action
against a member, takes final action with respect to a denial or conditioning membership, or
takes final action with respect to a denial or limitation of access of a person to any services
offered by the SBSEF, the SBSEF shall file a notice of such action with the Commission within
30 days and serve a copy on the affected person.
The Commission preliminarily estimates that it would take 0.5 hours to prepare this
 513 240 hours (80 hours of in-house counsel time) x (3 respondents).
514 160 hours (80 hours of in-house counsel time) x (2 respondents). This estimate is
informed by Rule 908(c) of the Commission’s Regulation SBSR, which sets forth the
requirements surrounding requests under which regulatory reporting and public
dissemination of SBS transactions can be satisfied by complying with the rules of a
foreign jurisdiction rather than the parallel rules applicable in the United States. The
materials necessary to support such a request under Rule 908(c) are broadly similar to the
materials necessary to support a request for an exemption order under one or both
paragraphs of proposed Rule 833. The Commission estimated that the burden of a
request under Rule 908(c) would be 80 hours of in-house counsel time; therefore, the
Commission preliminarily estimates that burden for submitting documents and
information in support of a request for an exemption order under Rule 833 would be the
same.
367
notice and provide it to the Commission and the affected person. This estimate is based on a
previous Commission estimate for the time that it would take to prepare and submit a simple
notice.515 The Commission preliminarily believes that it would take an additional 0.25 hours to
create and serve a copy of that notice on the affected person. The Commission estimates that
these notices would occur once per month at each SBSEF, resulting in an aggregate annual
burden to comply with proposed Rule 835 of 45 hours.516 The Commission believes that this
work, should it be required, would be conducted internally. The Commission solicits comment
as to the accuracy of these estimates.
6. Total paperwork burden under proposed Regulation SE
Based on the foregoing, the Commission preliminarily estimates that the total one-time
burden for all SBSEFs, persons that seek an exemption order under proposed Rule 833, and SBS
exchanges combined pursuant to the requirements under Regulation SE is equal to 1,995 hours.
The Commission preliminarily estimates that annual ongoing burden for all SBSEFs, persons
that seek an exemption order under proposed Rule 833, and SBS exchanges combined pursuant
to the requirements under Regulation SE is equal to 2,711.9 hours.
Summary of Aggregate Burden Hours
Proposed Rule or
Provision
Burden Hours Per
Respondent
One-Time or
Ongoing
Respondents Total Hours
Registration (Rule
803, Form SBSEF)
295 One-Time 5 1,475
Rules modelled on 387 Ongoing 5 1,935
 515 A provision of Regulation SCI, Rule 1000(b)(4)(i), also requires providing a simple
notice and the Commission estimated that it would take 0.5 hours to prepare and such a
notice. See Regulation Systems Compliance and Integrity; Final Rule, SEA Release No.
73639 (November 19, 2014), 79 FR 72251, 72381 (December 5, 2014).
516 45 hours (0.75 hours of in-house counsel time) x (12 responses per year) x (5
respondents).
368
CFTC Part 37
(other than
registration)
Rule and product
filing processes
(Rules 804
through 807)
60 Ongoing 5 300
809 0.25 Ongoing 5 1.25
811(d) 0.2 Ongoing 5 1
819(i) 79.83 Ongoing 5 399.15
819(j) 0.5 Ongoing 5 2.5
826(f) 0.4 Ongoing 5 2
833 80 One-Time 3 & 2517 240 & 160
834(b) through (c) 15 One-Time 8 120
834(d) through (g) 3.25 Ongoing 8 26
835 9 Ongoing 5 45
E. Collection of information is mandatory
The collections of information imposed on SBSEFs throughout Regulation SE would be
mandatory for registered SBSEFs. The collection of information with respect to proposed Rule
833 would be mandatory for persons that seek an exemption order under Rule 833. The
collection of information with respect to proposed Rule 834 would be mandatory for SBS
exchanges.
F. Responses to collection of information will not be confidential
The collection of information required under Regulation SE would generally not be kept
confidential, unless confidential treatment is requested and granted by the Commission pursuant
to Rule 24b-2 under the SEA.
G. Retention period of recordkeeping requirements
Although recordkeeping and retention requirements have not yet been established for
 517 Three respondents in the first year and then two each subsequent year.
369
SBSEFs, the Commission is authorized to adopt such rules under Section 3D of the SEA.
Proposed Rule 826 under Regulation SE would implement Section 3D(d)(9) of the SEA to
require an SBSEF to maintain records, for a minimum of five years, of all activities relating to
the business of the SBSEF, including a complete audit trail.
H. Request for comment
The Commission solicits comment on all aspects of its PRA estimates regarding the
above, particularly the following:
221. Please provide any data or analysis bearing on whether the proposed collection of
information is necessary for the proper performance of the functions of the agency,
including whether the information shall have practical utility.
222. Do you believe that the Commission’s estimate of the burden of the proposed
collections of information is accurate? Why or why not? If not, what aspects (in
your view) require adjustment? To the extent possible, please provide data to support
your contention.
223. Do you believe that there are ways to enhance the quality, utility, and clarity of
the information proposed to be collected? If so, please describe.
224. Do you believe that there are ways to minimize the burden of collection of
information on respondents, including through the use of automated collection
techniques or other forms of information technology? If so, please describe.
225. Do you believe that the proposed rules and amendments would have any effects
on any other collection of information not previously identified in this section? If so,
please describe and quantify to the extent feasible.
Pursuant to 44 U.S.C. 3506(c)(2)(B), the Commission solicits comments to: (1) evaluate
370
whether the proposed collection of information is necessary for the proper performance of the
functions of the Commission, including whether the information will have practical utility; (2)
evaluate the accuracy of the Commission’s estimate of the burden of the proposed collection of
information; (3) determine whether there are ways to enhance the quality, utility, and clarity of
the information to be collected; and (4) determine whether there are ways to minimize the burden
of the collection of information on those who are to respond, including through the use of
automated collection techniques or other forms of information technology. Persons wishing to
submit comments on the collection of information requirements should direct them to the OMB
Desk Officer for the Securities and Exchange Commission,
MBX.OMB.OIRA.SEC_desk_officer@omb.eop.gov, and should send a copy to Vanessa A.
Countryman, Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 100 F Street, NE, Washington,
DC 20549-1090 with reference to File No. S7-14-22. OMB is required to make a decision
concerning the collection of information between 30 and 60 days after publication; therefore, a
comment to OMB is best assured of having its full effect if OMB receives it within 30 days of
publication. Requests for the materials submitted to OMB by the Commission with regard to this
collection of information should be in writing, refer to File No. S7-14-22, and be submitted to
the Securities and Exchange Commission, Office of FOIA Services, 100 F Street, NE,
Washington, DC 20549-2736. As OMB is required to make a decision concerning the collection
of information between 30 and 60 days after publication, a comment to OMB is best assured of
having its full effect if OMB receives it within 30 days of publication.
XXI. Regulatory Flexibility Act Certification
371
The Regulatory Flexibility Act (“RFA”)518 requires federal agencies, in promulgating
rules, to consider the impact of those rules on small entities. Section 603(a) of the
Administrative Procedure Act,519 as amended by the RFA, generally requires the Commission to
undertake a regulatory flexibility analysis of all proposed rules, or proposed rule amendments, to
determine the impact of such rulemaking on “small entities.”520 Section 605(b) of the RFA states
that this requirement shall not apply to any proposed rule or proposed rule amendment which, if
adopted, would not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small
entities.521
A. SBSEFs
Most of proposed Regulation SE, and the related rules and rule amendments, would apply
to registered SBSEFs (or entities that are seeking to register with the Commission as SBSEFs).
In the Dodd-Frank Act, Congress defined SBSEFs as a new type of trading venue for SBS and
mandated the registration of these entities. Based on its understanding of the market, and review
of and consultation with industry sources, the Commission preliminarily estimates that five
entities will seek to register as SBSEFs and thus would be subject to Regulation SE and the
 518 5 U.S.C. 601 et seq.
519 5 U.S.C. 603(a).
520 Although Section 601(b) of the RFA defines the term “small entity,” the statute permits
agencies to formulate their own definitions. The Commission has adopted definitions for
the term “small entity” for the purposes of Commission rulemaking in accordance with
the RFA. Those definitions, as relevant to this proposed rulemaking, are set forth in Rule
0-10 under the SEA, 17 CFR 240.0-10. See SEA Release No. 18452 (January 28, 1982),
47 FR 5215 (February 4, 1982) (File No. AS-305).
521 See 5 U.S.C. 605(b).
372
related rules and rule amendments.
For purposes of Commission rulemaking in connection with the RFA, a small entity
includes: (1) when used with reference to an “issuer” or a “person,” other than an investment
company, an “issuer” or “person” that, on the last day of its most recent fiscal year, had total
assets of $5 million or less;
522 or (2) a broker-dealer with total capital (net worth plus
subordinated liabilities) of less than $500,000 on the date in the prior fiscal year as of which its
audited financial statements were prepared pursuant to Rule 17a-5(d) under the SEA,
523 or, if not
required to file such statements, a broker-dealer with total capital (net worth plus subordinated
liabilities) of less than $500,000 on the last business day of the preceding fiscal year (or in the
time that it has been in business, if shorter); and is not affiliated with any person (other than a
natural person) that is not a small business or small organization.524 Under the standards adopted
by the Small Business Administration (“SBA”), entities in financial investments and related
activities525 are considered small entities if they have $41.5 million or less in annual receipts.
The Commission preliminarily believes that most, if not all, SBSEFs would be large
business entities or subsidiaries of large business entities, and that every SBSEF (or its parent
entity) would have assets in excess of $5 million and annual receipts in excess of $41,500,000.
 522 See 17 CFR 240.0-10(a).
523 17 CFR 240.17a-5(d).
524 See 17 CFR 240.0-10(c).
525 These entities would include firms involved in investment banking and securities dealing;
securities brokerage; commodity contracts dealing; commodity contracts brokerage;
securities and commodity exchanges; portfolio management; investment advice; trust,
fiduciary and custody activities; miscellaneous intermediation; and miscellaneous
financial investment activities. See SBA’s Table of Small Business Size Standards,
Subsector 523.
373
Therefore, the Commission preliminarily believes that none of the potential SBSEFs would be
considered small entities.
B. Persons requesting an exemption order pursuant to Rule 833
Proposed Rule 833 would describe how foreign SBS trading venues could become
exempt from the SEA definitions of “exchange,” “security-based swap execution facility,” and
“broker” and how SBS executed on a foreign trading venue could become exempt from the
SEA’s trade execution requirement. Based on the fact that the CFTC has granted similar
exemptions with respect to three foreign jurisdictions,
526 the Commission preliminarily estimates
that there would be three requests under one or both paragraphs of proposed Rule 833 in the first
year and two in each subsequent year. These requests would likely be submitted by foreign SBS
trading venues, foreign authorities that license and regulate those trading venues, or covered
persons (as defined in proposed Rule 832) who are members of such trading venues.
Based on the Commission’s existing information about the SBS market, the Commission
preliminarily believes that no person likely to request an exemption order pursuant to proposed
Rule 833 would be considered a small entity. The Commission preliminarily believes that most,
if not all, of the persons requesting exemptions would be large business entities or subsidiaries of
large business entities, and on its own, or through its parent entity, would have assets in excess of
$5 million (or in the case of a broker-dealer, total capital of less than $500,000) and annual
receipts in excess of $41,500,000. Therefore, the Commission preliminarily believes that they
would not be considered small entities.
C. SBS exchanges
 526 See supra note 244.
374
Certain rules under proposed Regulation SE would apply to SBS exchanges. Currently,
there are no SBS exchanges. However, the Commission preliminarily estimates that there could
be up to three entities would be considered SBS exchanges and would thus be subject to certain
requirements of proposed Regulation SE.
For purposes of Commission rulemaking in connection with the RFA, a small entity
includes, when used with reference to an exchange, an exchange that has been exempted from
the reporting requirements of Rule 601 of Regulation NMS527 and is not affiliated with any
person (other than a natural person) that is not a small business or small organization.528 Under
the standards adopted by the SBA, entities involved in financial investments and related
activities529 are considered small entities if they have $41.5 million or less in annual receipts.
Based on these definitions and the Commission’s existing information about national
securities exchanges, the Commission preliminarily believes that the entities likely to be
considered SBS exchanges would not be considered small entities. Under the standard requiring
exemption from the reporting requirements of Rule 601 under the SEA, none of the exchanges
subject to the proposed Regulation SE is a “small entity” for the purposes of the RFA. In
addition, the Commission preliminarily believes that any SBS exchange would have annual
receipts in excess of $41,500,000. Therefore, the Commission preliminarily believes that no
 527 17 CFR 242.601.
528 See 17 CFR 240.0-10(e).
529 These entities would include firms involved in investment banking and securities dealing,
securities brokerage, commodity contracts dealing, commodity contracts brokerage,
securities and commodity exchanges, miscellaneous intermediation, portfolio
management, investment advice, trust, fiduciary and custody activities, and
miscellaneous financial investment activities. See SBA’s Table of Small Business Size
Standards, Subsector 523.
375
potential SBS exchange would be considered small entities.
D. Certification
For the foregoing reasons, the Commission certifies that the proposed rules, form, and
cover sheet under Regulation SE and the related rules and rule amendments, if adopted, would
not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities for purposes of
the RFA. The Commission invites commenters to address whether the proposed rules would
have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities, and, if so, what
would be the nature of any impact on small entities. The Commission requests that commenters
provide empirical data to illustrate the extent of the impact.
XXII. Consideration of Impact on the Economy
For purposes of the Small Business Regulatory Enforcement Fairness Act of 1996,
(“SBREFA”),530 the Commission requests comment on the potential effect of the proposed
Regulation SE, and related proposed rules and rule amendments under the SEA, on the United
States economy on an annual basis. The Commission also requests comment on any potential
increases in costs or prices for consumers or individual industries, and any potential effect on
competition, investment, or innovation. Commenters are requested to provide empirical data and
other factual support for their views to the extent possible.
Statutory Authority
Pursuant to the SEA (particularly Sections 3(b), 3C, 3D, and 36 thereof, 15 U.S.C. 78c,
78c-4, 78c-4, and 78mm, respectively) and the Dodd-Frank Act (particularly Section 765 thereof,
15 U.S.C. 8343), the Commission is proposing to amend §§ 201.101, 201.202, 201.210, 201.401,
 530 Pub. L. No. 104-121, Title II, 110 Stat. 857 (1996) (codified in various sections of 5
U.S.C., 15 U.S.C., and as a note to 5 U.S.C. 601).
376
201.450, 201.460, 232.405, and 240.3a1-1 of chapter II of title 17 of the Code of Federal
Regulations and is proposing new §§ 201.442, 201.443, 240.15a-12, and 242.800 through
242.835, as set forth below.
List of Subjects
17 CFR Part 201
Administrative practice and procedure.
17 CFR Part 232
General rules and regulations for electronic filings.
17 CFR Part 240
Brokers, Dealers, Registration, Securities.
17 CFR 242 and 249
Brokers, Security-based swap execution facilities, Reporting and recordkeeping
requirements.
Text of the Amendments
For the reasons stated in the preamble, the Commission is proposing to amend title 17,
chapter II of the Code of the Federal Regulations as follows:
Part 201—Rules of Practice
1. The authority citation for part 201, subpart D, is revised to read as follows:
Authority: 15 U.S.C. 77f, 77g, 77h, 77h-1, 77j, 77s, 77u, 78c(b), 78c-4, 78d-1, 78d-2,
78l, 78m, 78n, 78o(d), 78o-3, 78s, 78u-2, 78u-3, 78v, 78w, 77sss, 77ttt, 80a-8, 80a-9, 80a-37,
80a-38, 80a-39, 80a-40, 80a-41, 80a-44, 80b-3, 80b-9, 80b-11, 80b-12, 7202, 7215, and 7217.
§ 201.101 Definitions
2. Amend § 201.101 by adding paragraph (a)(9)(ix) as follows:
377
*****
(a) ***
(9) ***
(ix) By the filing, pursuant to § 201.442, of an application for review of a determination
of a security-based swap execution facility;
*****
§ 201.202 Appearance and practice before the Commission
3. Amend § 201.202 by revising paragraph (a) to read as follows:
(a) Motion to specify procedures. In any proceeding other than an enforcement or
disciplinary proceeding, a proceeding to review a determination by a self-regulatory organization
pursuant to §§ 201.420 and 201.421, a proceeding to review a determination of the Board
pursuant to §§ 201.440 and 201.441, or a proceeding to review a determination by a securitybased swap execution facility pursuant to §§ 201.442 and 201.443, a party may, at any time up to
20 days prior to the start of a hearing, make a motion to specify the procedures necessary or
appropriate for the proceeding with particular reference to:
(1) Whether there should be an initial decision by a hearing officer;
(2) Whether any interested division of the Commission may assist in the preparation of
the Commission's decision; and
(3) Whether there should be a 30-day waiting period between the issuance of the
Commission's order and the date it is to become effective.
***
§ 201.210 Parties, limited participants and amici curiae
4. Amend § 201.210 by:
378
(a) Revising the introductory text of paragraphs (a) and (a)(1);
(b) Revising the introductory text of paragraphs (b) and (b)(1); and
(c) Revising the introductory text of paragraph (c).
The revisions read as follows:
(a) Parties in an enforcement or disciplinary proceeding, a proceeding to review a selfregulatory organization determination, a proceeding to review a Board determination, or a
proceeding to review a determination by a security-based swap execution facility. (1) Generally.
No person shall be granted leave to become a party or a non-party participant on a limited basis
in an enforcement or disciplinary proceeding, a proceeding to review a determination by a selfregulatory organization pursuant to §§ 201.420 and 201.421, a proceeding to review a
determination by the Board pursuant to §§ 201.440 and 201.441, or a proceeding to review a
determination by a security-based swap execution facility pursuant to §§ 201.442 and 201.443,
except as authorized by paragraph (c) of this section.
***
(b) Intervention as party. (1) Generally. In any proceeding, other than an enforcement
proceeding, a disciplinary proceeding, a proceeding to review a self-regulatory determination, a
proceeding to review a Board determination, or a proceeding to review a security-based swap
execution facility determination, any person may seek leave to intervene as a party by filing a
motion setting forth the person’s interest in the proceeding. No person, however, shall be
admitted as a party to a proceeding by intervention unless it is determined that leave to
participate pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section would be inadequate for the protection of the
person’s interests. In a proceeding under the Investment Company Act of 1940, any
representative of interested security holders, or any other person whose participation in the
379
proceeding may be in the public interest or for the protection of investors, may be admitted as a
party upon the filing of a written motion setting forth the person’s interest in the proceeding.
***
(c) Leave to participate on a limited basis. In any proceeding, other than an enforcement
proceeding, a disciplinary proceeding, a proceeding to review a self-regulatory determination, a
proceeding to review a Board determination, or a proceeding to review a security-based swap
execution facility determination, any person may seek leave to participate on a limited basis as a
non-party participant as any matter affecting the person’s interests:
(1) ***
*****
§ 201.401 Consideration of stays
5. Amend § 201.401 by adding paragraph (f) as follows:
*****
(f) Lifting of stay of action by a security-based swap execution facility. (1) Availability.
Any person aggrieved by a stay of action by a security-based swap execution facility entered in
accordance with § 201.442(c) may make a motion to lift the stay. The Commission may, at any
time, on its own motion determine whether to lift the automatic stay.
(2) Summary action. The Commission may lift a stay summarily, without notice and
opportunity for hearing.
(3) Expedited consideration. The Commission may expedite consideration of a motion to
lift a stay of action by a security-based swap execution facility, consistent with the
Commission’s other responsibilities. Where consideration is expedited, persons opposing the
lifting of the stay may file a statement in opposition within two days of service of the motion
380
requesting lifting of the stay unless the Commission, by written order, shall specify a different
period.
6. Add §201.442 to read as follows:
§ 201.442 Appeal of determination by security-based swap execution facility.
(a) Application for review; when available. An application for review by the
Commission may be filed by any person who is aggrieved by a determination of a security-based
swap execution facility with respect to any:
(1) Final disciplinary action, as defined in § 240.835(b)(1);
(2) Final action with respect to a denial or conditioning of membership, as defined in
§ 240.835(b)(2); or
(3) Final action with respect to a denial or limitation of access to any service offered by
the security-based swap execution facility, as defined in § 240.835(b)(2).
(b) Procedure. An aggrieved person may file an application for review with the
Commission pursuant to § 201.151 within 30 days after the notice filed with the Commission
pursuant to § 242.835 by the security-based swap execution facility of the determination is
received by the aggrieved person. The aggrieved person shall serve the application on the
security-based swap execution facility at the same time. The application shall identify the
determination complained of, set forth in summary form a statement of alleged errors in the
action and supporting reasons therefor, and state an address where the applicant can be served.
The application should not exceed two pages in length. If the applicant will be represented by a
representative, the application shall be accompanied by the notice of appearance required by
§ 201.102(d). Any exception to an action not supported in an opening brief that complies with
§ 201.450(b) may, at the discretion of the Commission, be deemed to have been waived by the
381
applicant.
(c) Stay of determination. Filing an application for review with the Commission pursuant
to paragraph (b) of this section operates as a stay of the security-based swap execution facility’s
determination, unless the Commission otherwise orders either pursuant to a motion filed in
accordance with § 201.401(f) or upon its own motion.
(d) Certification of the record; service of the index. Within 14 days after receipt of an
application for review, the security-based swap execution facility shall certify and file
electronically in the form and manner specified by the Office of the Secretary one unredacted
copy of the record upon which it took the complained-of action.
(1) The security-based swap execution facility shall file electronically with the
Commission one copy of an index of such record in the form and manner specified by the
Commission, and shall serve one copy of the index on each party. If such index contains any
sensitive personal information, as defined in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, the security-based
swap execution facility also shall file electronically with the Commission one redacted copy of
such index, subject to the requirements of paragraphs (d)(2) of this section.
(2) Sensitive personal information includes a Social Security number, taxpayer
identification number, financial account number, credit card or debit card number, passport
number, driver’s license number, state-issued identification number, home address (other than
city and state), telephone number, date of birth (other than year), names and initials of minor
children, as well as any unnecessary health information identifiable by individual, such as an
individual’s medical records. Sensitive personal information shall not be included in, and must
be redacted or omitted from, all filings.
(i) Exceptions. The following information may be included and is not required to be
382
redacted from filings:
(A) The last four digits of a financial account number, credit card or debit card number,
passport number, driver’s license number, and state-issued identification number;
(B) Home addresses and telephone numbers of parties and persons filing documents with
the Commission; and
(C) Business telephone numbers.
(e) Certification. Any filing made pursuant to this section, other than the record upon
which the action complained of was taken, must include a certification that any information
described in paragraph (d)(2) of this section has been omitted or redacted from the filing.
7. Add §201.443 to read as follows:
§ 201.443 Commission consideration of security-based swap execution facility
determinations.
(a) Commission review other than pursuant to an application for review. The
Commission may, on its own initiative, order review of any determination by a security-based
swap execution facility that could be subject to an application for review pursuant to
§ 201.442(a) within 40 days after the security-based swap execution facility provided notice to
the Commission thereof.
(b) Supplemental briefing. The Commission may at any time before issuing its decision
raise or consider any matter that it deems material, whether or not raised by the parties. The
Commission will give notice to the parties and an opportunity for supplemental briefing with
respect to issues not briefed by the parties where the Commission believes that such briefing
could significantly aid the decisional process.
§ 201.450 Briefs filed with the Commission
383
8. Amend §201.450, by redesignating paragraphs (a)(2)(iv) and (a)(2)(v) as paragraphs
(a)(2)(v) and (a)(2)(vi), and adding new paragraph (a)(2)(iv) to read as follows:
*****
(a) ***
(2) ***
(iv) Receipt by the Commission of an index to the record of a determination by a
security-based swap execution facility filed pursuant to § 201.442(d).
*****
§ 201.460 Record before the Commission
9. Amend §201.460 by adding paragraph (a)(4) to read as follows:
*****
(a) ***
(4) In a proceeding for final decision before the Commission reviewing a determination
of a security-based swap execution facility, the record shall consist of:
(i) The record certified pursuant to § 201.442(d) by the security-based swap execution
facility;
(ii) Any application for review; and
(iii) Any submissions, moving papers, and briefs filed on appeal or review.
*****
Part 232—General Rules and Regulations for Electronic Filings
10. The authority citation for part 232 continues to read as follows:
Authority: 15 U.S.C. 77c, 77f, 77g, 77h, 77j, 77s(a), 77z-3, 77sss(a), 78c(b), 78l, 78m,
78n, 78o(d), 78w(a), 78ll, 80a-6(c), 80a-8, 80a-29, 80a-30, 80a-37, 7201 et seq.; and 18 U.S.C.
384
1350, unless otherwise noted.
*****
§ 232.405 Interactive Data File submissions
11. Amend §232.405 by:
(a) Revising the introductory text and paragraphs (a)(2) and (a)(4);
(b) Adding paragraph (b)(1)(iii); and
(c) Revising Note 1 to § 232.405.
The revisions read as follows:
This section applies to electronic filers that submit Interactive Data Files. Section
229.601(b)(101) of this chapter (Item 601(b)(101) of Regulation S-K), paragraph (101) of Part
II—Information Not Required to be Delivered to Offerees or Purchasers of Form F-10 (§ 239.40
of this chapter), paragraph 101 of the Instructions as to Exhibits of Form 20-F (§ 249.220f of this
chapter), paragraph B.(15) of the General Instructions to Form 40-F (§ 249.240f of this chapter),
paragraph C.(6) of the General Instructions to Form 6-K (§ 249.306 of this chapter), General
Instruction C.3.(g) of Form N-1A (§§ 239.15A and 274.11A of this chapter), General Instruction
I of Form N-2 (§§ 239.14 and 274.11a-1 of this chapter), General Instruction C.3.(h) of Form
N-3 (§§ 239.17a and 274.11b of this chapter), General Instruction C.3.(h) of Form N-4
(§§ 239.17b and 274.11c of this chapter), General Instruction C.3.(h) of Form N-6 (§§ 239.17c
and 274.11d of this chapter), General Instruction C.4 of Form N-CSR (§§ 249.331 and 274.128
of this chapter), Rules 803(b)(1)(i), 803(b)(3), 803(e), 804(a)(1), 805(a)(1), 806(a)(1), 807(a)(1),
807(d), 829(g)(6), and 831(j)(2) of Regulation SE (§§ 242.803 through 807, 829, and 831 of this
chapter), Registration Instructions to Form SBSEF (§ 249.2001 of this chapter), and Instruction
A to the Security-Based Swap Execution Facility Submission Cover Sheet (§ 249.2002 of this
385
chapter) specify when electronic filers are required or permitted to submit an Interactive Data
File (§ 232.11), as further described in note 1 to this section. This section imposes content,
format, and submission requirements for an Interactive Data File, but does not change the
substantive content requirements for the financial and other disclosures in the Related Official
Filing (§ 232.11).
(a) ***
(2) Be submitted only by an electronic filer either required or permitted to submit an
Interactive Data File as specified by § 229.601(b)(101) of this chapter (Item 601(b)(101) of
Regulation S-K), paragraph (101) of Part II—Information Not Required to be Delivered to
Offerees or Purchasers of Form F-10 (§ 239.40 of this chapter), paragraph 101 of the Instructions
as to Exhibits of Form 20-F (§ 249.220f of this chapter), paragraph B.(15) of the General
Instructions to Form 40-F (§ 249.240f of this chapter), paragraph C.(6) of the General
Instructions to Form 6-K (§ 249.306 of this chapter), General Instruction C.3.(g) of Form N-1A
(§§ 239.15A and 274.11A of this chapter), General Instruction I of Form N-2 (§§ 239.14 and
274.11a-1 of this chapter), General Instruction C.3.(h) of Form N-3 (§§ 239.17a and 274.11b of
this chapter), General Instruction C.3.(h) of Form N-4 (§§ 239.17b and 274.11c of this chapter),
General Instruction C.3.(h) of Form N-6 (§§ 239.17c and 274.11d of this chapter), General
Instruction C.4 of Form N-CSR (§§ 249.331 and 274.128 of this chapter), Rules 803(b)(1)(i),
803(b)(3), 803(e), 804(a)(1), 805(a)(1), 806(a)(1), 807(a)(1), 807(d), 829(g)(6), and 831(j)(2) of
Regulation SE (§§ 242.803 through 807, 829, and 831 of this chapter), Registration Instructions
to Form SBSEF (§ 249.2001 of this chapter), and Instruction A to the Security-Based Swap
Execution Facility Submission Cover Sheet (§ 249.2002 of this chapter), as applicable;
***
386
(4) Be submitted in accordance with the EDGAR Filer Manual and, as applicable, Item
601(b)(101) of Regulation S-K (§ 229.601(b)(101) of this chapter), paragraph (101) of Part II—
Information Not Required to be Delivered to Offerees or Purchasers of Form F-10 (§ 239.40 of
this chapter), paragraph 101 of the Instructions as to Exhibits of Form 20-F (§ 249.220f of this
chapter), paragraph B.(15) of the General Instructions to Form 40-F (§ 249.240f of this chapter),
paragraph C.(6) of the General Instructions to Form 6-K (§ 249.306 of this chapter), General
Instruction C.3.(g) of Form N-1A (§§ 239.15A and 274.11A of this chapter), General Instruction
I of Form N-2 (§§ 239.14 and 274.11a-1 of this chapter), General Instruction C.3.(h) of Form
N-3 (§§ 239.17a and 274.11b of this chapter), General Instruction C.3.(h) of Form N-4
(§§ 239.17b and 274.11c of this chapter), General Instruction C.3.(h) of Form N-6 (§§ 239.17c
and 274.11d of this chapter), General Instruction C.4 of Form N-CSR (§§ 249.331 and 274.128
of this chapter), Rules 803(b)(1)(i), 803(b)(3), 803(e), 804(a)(1), 805(a)(1), 806(a)(1), 807(a)(1),
807(d), 829(g)(6), and 831(j)(2) of Regulation SE (§§ 242.803 through 807, 829, and 831 of this
chapter), Registration Instructions to Form SBSEF (§ 249.2001 of this chapter), or Instruction A
to the Security-Based Swap Execution Facility Submission Cover Sheet (§ 249.2002 of this
chapter), as applicable.
(b) ***
(1) ***
(iii) For electronic filers subject to Regulation SE (§§ 242.800 et seq.), the content of
documents required to be filed electronically under Rules 803(b)(1)(i), 803(b)(3), 803(e),
804(a)(1), 805(a)(1), 806(a)(1), 807(a)(1), 807(d), 829(g)(6), and 831(j)(2) of Regulation SE
(§§ 242.803 through 807, 829, and 831 of this chapter), Registration Instructions to Form SBSEF
(§ 249.2001 of this chapter), and Instruction A to the Security-Based Swap Execution Facility
387
Submission Cover Sheet (§ 249.2002 of this chapter), as applicable.
***
Note 1 to § 232.405: Section 229.601(b)(101) of this chapter (Item 601(b)(101) of
Regulation S-K) specifies the circumstances under which an Interactive Data File must be
submitted and the circumstances under which it is permitted to be submitted, with respect to
§ 239.11 of this chapter (Form S-1), § 239.13 of this chapter (Form S-3), § 239.25 of this chapter
(Form S-4), § 239.18 of this chapter (Form S-11), § 239.31 of this chapter (Form F-1), § 239.33
of this chapter (Form F-3), § 239.34 of this chapter (Form F-4), § 249.310 of this chapter (Form
10-K), § 249.308a of this chapter (Form 10-Q), and § 249.308 of this chapter (Form 8-K).
Paragraph (101) of Part II—Information not Required to be Delivered to Offerees or Purchasers
of § 239.40 of this chapter (Form F-10) specifies the circumstances under which an Interactive
Data File must be submitted and the circumstances under which it is permitted to be submitted,
with respect to Form F-10. Paragraph 101 of the Instructions as to Exhibits of § 249.220f of this
chapter (Form 20-F) specifies the circumstances under which an Interactive Data File must be
submitted and the circumstances under which it is permitted to be submitted, with respect to
Form 20-F. Paragraph B.(15) of the General Instructions to § 249.240f of this chapter (Form
40-F) and Paragraph C.(6) of the General Instructions to § 249.306 of this chapter (Form 6-K)
specify the circumstances under which an Interactive Data File must be submitted and the
circumstances under which it is permitted to be submitted, with respect to § 249.240f of this
chapter (Form 40-F) and § 249.306 of this chapter (Form 6-K). Rules 803(b)(1)(i), 803(b)(3),
803(e), 804(a)(1), 805(a)(1), 806(a)(1), 807(a)(1), 807(d), 829(g)(6), and 831(j)(2) of Regulation
SE (§§ 242.803 through 807, 829, and 831 of this chapter), Registration Instructions to Form
SBSEF (§ 249.2001 of this chapter), and Instruction A to the Security-Based Swap Execution
388
Facility Submission Cover Sheet (§ 249.2002 of this chapter), as applicable. Section
229.601(b)(101) (Item 601(b)(101) of Regulation S-K), paragraph (101) of Part II—Information
not Required to be Delivered to Offerees or Purchasers of Form F-10, paragraph 101 of the
Instructions as to Exhibits of Form 20-F, paragraph B.(15) of the General Instructions to Form
40-F, and paragraph C.(6) of the General Instructions to Form 6-K all prohibit submission of an
Interactive Data File by an issuer that prepares its financial statements in accordance with 17
CFR 210.6-01 through 210.6-10 (Article 6 of Regulation S-X). For an issuer that is a
management investment company or separate account registered under the Investment Company
Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a et seq.) or a business development company as defined in Section
2(a)(48) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-2(a)(48)), General Instruction
C.3.(g) of Form N-1A (§§ 239.15A and 274.11A of this chapter), General Instruction I of Form
N-2 (§§ 239.14 and 274.11a-1 of this chapter), General Instruction C.3.(h) of Form N-3
(§§ 239.17a and 274.11b of this chapter), General Instruction C.3.(h) of Form N-4 (§§ 239.17b
and 274.11c of this chapter), General Instruction C.3.(h) of Form N-6 (§§ 239.17c and 274.11d
of this chapter), and General Instruction C.4 of Form N-CSR (§§ 249.331 and 274.128 of this
chapter), as applicable, specifies the circumstances under which an Interactive Data File must be
submitted.
*****
Part 240—General Rules and Regulations, Securities Exchange Act of 1934
12. The general authority citation for part 240 continues to read as follows:
Authority: 15 U.S.C. 77c, 77d, 77g, 77j, 77s, 77z-2, 77z-3, 77eee, 77ggg, 77nnn, 77sss,
77ttt, 78c, 78c-3, 78c-5, 78d, 78e, 78f, 78g, 78i, 78j, 78j-1, 78k, 78k-1, 78l, 78m, 78n, 78n-1,
78o, 78o4, 78o-10, 78p, 78q, 78q-1, 78s, 78u-5, 78w, 78x, 78ll, 78mm, 80a-20, 80a-23, 80a-29,
389
80a-37, 80b-3, 80b-4, 80b-11, 7201 et seq., and 8302; 7 U.S.C. 2(c)(2)(E); 12 U.S.C. 5221(e)(3);
18 U.S.C. 1350; Pub. L. 111-203, 939A, 124 Stat. 1887 (2010); and sec. 503 and 602, Pub. L.
112-106, 126 Stat. 326 (2012), unless otherwise noted.
* * * * *
13. Amend §240.3a1-1 by adding paragraphs (a)(4) and (a)(5), and revising the
introductory text of paragraph (b) to read as follows:
§ 240.3a1-1 Exemption from the definition of “exchange” under Section 3(a)(1) of the Act.
*****
(a) ***
(4) Has registered with the Commission as a security-based swap execution facility
pursuant § 242.803 and provides a market place for no securities other than security-based
swaps; or
(5) Has registered with the Commission as a clearing agency pursuant to section 17A of
the Act (15 U.S.C. 78q-1) and limits its exchange functions to operation of a trading session that
is designed to further the accuracy of end-of-day valuations.
(b) Notwithstanding paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(3) of this section, an organization,
association, or group of persons shall not be exempt under this section from the definition of
“exchange,” if: ***
*****
14. Add § 240.15a-12 to read as follows:
§ 240.15a-12 Exemption for certain security-based swap execution facilities from certain
broker requirements
(a) For purposes of this section, an SBSEF-B means a security-based swap execution
390
facility that does not engage in any securities activity other than facilitating the trading of
security-based swaps on or through the security-based swap execution facility.
(b) An SBSEF-B that registers with the Commission pursuant to § 242.803 shall be
deemed also to have registered with the Commission pursuant to sections 15(a) and (b) of the
Act (15 U.S.C. 78o(a)(1) and (b)).
(c) Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, an SBSEF-B shall be exempt from
any provision of the Act or the Commission’s rules thereunder applicable to brokers that, by its
terms, requires, prohibits, restricts, limits, conditions, or affects the activities of a broker, unless
such provision specifies that it applies to a security-based swap execution facility.
(d) Notwithstanding paragraph (c) of this section, the following provisions of the Act and
the Commission’s rules thereunder shall apply to an SBSEF-B:
(1) Section 15(b)(4) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78o(b)(4));
(2) Section 15(b)(6) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78o(b)(6)); and
(3) Section 17(b) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78q(b)).
(e) An SBSEF-B shall be exempt from the Securities Investor Protection Act.
*****
PART 242—REGULATIONS M, SHO, ATS, AC, NMS, AND SE AND CUSTOMER
MARGIN REQUIREMENTS FOR SECURITY FUTURES
15. The authority citation for part 242 is amended by adding the following citation to
read as follows:
Authority: 15 U.S.C. 77g, 77q(a), 77s(a), 78b, 78c, 78c-4, 78g(c)(2), 78i(a), 78j,
78k-1(c), 78l, 78m, 78n, 78o(b), 78o(c), 78o(g), 78q(a), 78q(b), 78q(h), 78w(a), 78dd-1, 78mm,
80a-23, 80a-29, 80a-37, and 8343.
391
*****
Sections 242.800 through 242.835 are also issued under sec. 943, Pub. L. 111–203,
Section 763.
16. The heading for part 242 is revised to read as set forth above.
17. Part 242 is amended by adding §§ 242.800 through 242.835 to read as follows:
Sec.
242.800 Scope.
242.801 Applicable provisions.
242.802 Definitions.
242.803 Requirements and procedures for registration.
242.804 Listing products for trading by certification.
242.805 Voluntary submission of new products for Commission review and
approval.
242.806 Voluntary submission of rules for Commission review and approval.
242.807 Self-certification of rules.
242.808 Availability of public information.
242.809 Stay of certification and tolling of review period pending jurisdictional
determination.
242.810 Product filings by security-based swap execution facilities that are not yet
registered and by dormant security-based swap execution facilities.
242.811 Information relating to security-based swap execution facility compliance.
242.812 Enforceability.
242.813 Prohibited use of data collected for regulation purposes.
392
242.814 Entity operating both a national securities exchange and security-based
swap execution facility.
242.815 Methods of execution for Required and Permitted Transactions.
242.816 Trade execution requirement and exemptions therefrom.
242.817 Trade execution compliance schedule.
242.818 Core Principle 1—Compliance with core principles.
242.819 Core Principle 2—Compliance with rules.
242.820 Core Principle 3—Security-based swaps not readily susceptible to
manipulation.
242.821 Core Principle 4—Monitoring of trading and trade processing.
242.822 Core Principle 5—Ability to obtain information.
242.823 Core Principle 6—Financial integrity of transactions.
242.824 Core Principle 7—Emergency authority.
242.825 Core Principle 8—Timely publication of trading information.
242.826 Core Principle 9—Recordkeeping and reporting.
242.827 Core Principle 10—Antitrust considerations.
242.828 Core Principle 11—Conflicts of interest.
242.829 Core Principle 12—Financial resources.
242.830 Core Principle 13—System safeguards.
242.831 Core Principle 14—Designation of chief compliance officers.
242.832 Application of the trade execution requirement to cross-border securitybased swap transactions.
242.833 Cross-border exemptions.
393
242.834 Mitigation of conflicts of interest of security-based swap execution
facilities and certain exchanges.
242.835 Notice to Commission by security-based swap execution facility of final
disciplinary action or denial or limitation of access.
§ 242.800 Scope.
The provisions of this section shall apply to every security-based swap execution facility
that is registered or is applying to become registered as a security-based swap execution facility
under section 3D of the Securities Exchange Act (the “Act”).
§ 242.801 Applicable provisions.
A security-based swap execution facility shall comply with the requirements of this
section and all other applicable Commission rules, including any related definitions and crossreferenced sections.
§ 242.802 Definitions.
The following terms, and any other terms defined within a rule in this chapter, are
defined as follows solely for purposes of this chapter:
(a) Block trade means a security-based swap transaction that is subject to public
dissemination pursuant to § 242.902 and:
(1) Involves a security-based swap that is listed on a security-based swap execution
facility or national securities exchange;
(2) Is executed on a security-based swap execution facility’s trading system or platform
that is not an order book or occurs away from the security-based swap execution facility’s or
national securities exchange’s system or platform and is executed pursuant to the rules and
procedures of the security-based swap execution facility or national securities exchange;
394
(3) Is a security-based swap based on a single credit instrument (or issuer of credit
instruments) or a narrow-based index of credit instruments (or issuers of credit instruments)
having a notional size of $5 million or greater; and
(4) Is reported subject to the rules and procedures of the security-based swap execution
facility or national securities exchange.
(b) Business day means the intraday period of time starting at 8:15 a.m. and ending at
4:45 p.m. Eastern Standard Time or Eastern Daylight Savings Time, whichever is currently in
effect in Washington DC, on all days except Saturdays, Sundays, and federal holidays in
Washington DC.
(c) Committee member means a member, or functional equivalent thereof, of any
committee of a security-based swap execution facility.
(d) Correcting trade means a trade executed and submitted for clearing to a registered
clearing agency with the same terms and conditions as an error trade other than any corrections
to any operational or clerical error and the time of execution.
(e) Disciplinary committee means any person or committee of persons, or any
subcommittee thereof, that is authorized by a security-based swap execution facility or SBS
exchange to issue disciplinary charges, to conduct disciplinary proceedings, to settle disciplinary
charges, to impose disciplinary sanctions, or to hear appeals thereof in cases involving any
violation of the rules of the security-based swap execution facility or SBS exchange, except
those cases where the person or committee is authorized summarily to impose minor penalties
for violating rules regarding decorum, attire, the timely submission of accurate records for
clearing or verifying each day’s transactions, or other similar activities.
(f) Dormant product means:
395
(1) Any security-based swap listed on security-based swap execution facility that has no
open interest and in which no trading has occurred for a period of 12 complete calendar months
following a certification to, or approval by, the Commission; provided, however, that no
security-based swap initially and originally certified to, or approved by, the Commission within
the preceding 36 complete calendar months shall be considered to be a dormant product;
(2) Any security-based swap of a dormant security-based swap execution facility; or
(3) Any security-based swap not otherwise a dormant product that a security-based swap
execution facility self-declares through certification to be a dormant product.
(g) Dormant security-based swap execution facility means a security-based swap
execution facility on which no trading has occurred for the previous 12 consecutive calendar
months; provided, however, that no security-based swap execution facility shall be considered to
be a dormant security-based swap execution facility if its initial and original Commission order
of registration was issued within the preceding 36 consecutive calendar months.
(h) Dormant rule means:
(1) Any rule of a security-based swap execution facility which remains unimplemented
for 12 consecutive calendar months following a certification with, or an approval by, the
Commission; or
(2) Any rule or rule amendment of a dormant security-based swap execution facility.
(i) Electronic trading facility means a trading facility that operates by means of an
electronic or telecommunications network and maintains an automated audit trail of bids, offers,
and the matching orders or the execution of transactions on the facility.
(j) Emergency means any occurrence or circumstance that, in the opinion of the
governing board of a security-based swap execution facility, or a person or persons duly
396
authorized to issue such an opinion on behalf of the governing board of the security-based swap
execution facility under circumstances and pursuant to procedures that are specified by rule,
requires immediate action and threatens or may threaten such things as the fair and orderly
trading in, or the liquidation of or delivery pursuant to, any security-based swaps, including:
(1) Any manipulative or attempted manipulative activity;
(2) Any actual, attempted, or threatened corner, squeeze, congestion, or undue
concentration of positions;
(3) Any circumstances which may materially affect the performance of securitybased swaps or transactions, including failure of the payment system or the bankruptcy or
insolvency of any market participant;
(4) Any action taken by any governmental body, or any other security-based swap
execution facility, market, or facility which may have a direct impact on trading or clearing and
settlement; and
(5) Any other circumstance which may have a severe, adverse effect upon the functioning
of the security-based swap execution facility.
(k) Employee means any person hired or otherwise employed on a salaried or contract
basis by a security-based swap execution facility, but does not include:
(1) Any governing board member compensated by the security-based swap execution
facility solely for governing board activities; or
(2) Any committee member compensated by a security-based swap execution
facility solely for committee activities; or
(3) Any consultant hired by a security-based swap execution facility.
(l) Error trade means any trade executed on or subject to the rules of a security-based
397
swap execution facility that contains an operational or clerical error.
(m) Governing board means the board of directors of a security-based swap execution
facility, or for a security-based swap execution facility whose organizational structure does not
include a board of directors, a body performing a function similar to a board of directors.
(n) Governing board member means a member, or functional equivalent thereof, of the
governing board of a security-based swap execution facility.
(o) Member, with respect to a national securities exchange, has the same meaning as in
§ 3(a)(3) of the Act. Member, with respect to a security-based swap execution facility, means an
individual, association, partnership, corporation, or trust owning or holding a membership in,
admitted to membership representation on, or having trading privileges on the security-based
swap execution facility.
(p) Non-U.S. member means a member of a security-based swap execution facility that is
not a U.S. person.
(q) Offsetting trade means a trade executed and submitted for clearing to a registered
clearing agency with terms and conditions that economically reverse an error trade that was
accepted for clearing.
(r) Order book means an electronic trading facility, a trading facility, or a trading system
or platform in which all market participants in the trading system or platform have the ability to
enter multiple bids and offers, observe or receive bids and offers entered by other market
participants, and transact on such bids and offers.
(s) Oversight panel means any panel, or any subcommittee thereof, authorized by an
SBSEF or SBS exchange to recommend or establish policies or procedures with respect to the
surveillance, compliance, rule enforcement, or disciplinary responsibilities of the SBSEF or SBS
398
exchange.
(t) Records has the meaning as in section 3(a)(37) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(37)).
(u) Rule means any constitutional provision, article of incorporation, by-law, rule,
regulation, resolution, interpretation, stated policy, advisory, terms and conditions, trading
protocol, agreement, or instrument corresponding thereto, including those that authorize a
response or establish standards for responding to a specific emergency, and any amendment or
addition thereto or repeal thereof, made or issued by a security-based swap execution facility or
by the governing board thereof or any committee thereof, in whatever form adopted.
(v) SBS exchange means a national securities exchange that posts or makes available for
trading security-based swaps.
(w) Security-based swap execution facility has the same meaning as in section 3(a)(77) of
the Act (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(77)) but does not include an entity that is registered with the
Commission as a clearing agency pursuant to section 17A of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78q-1) and
limits its security-based swap execution facility functions to operation of a trading session that is
designed to further the accuracy of end-of-day valuations.
(x) Senior officer means the chief executive officer or other equivalent officer of a
security-based swap execution facility.
(y) Terms and conditions means any definition of the trading unit or the specific
asset underlying a security-based swap, description of the payments to be exchanged under
a security-based swap, specification of cash settlement or delivery standards and procedures, and
establishment of buyers’ and sellers’ rights and obligations under the security-based swap.
Terms and conditions of a security-based swap include provisions relating to the following:
(1) Identification of the major group, category, type, or class in which the security-based
399
swap falls (such as a credit or equity security-based swap) and of any further sub-group,
category, type, or class that further describes the security-based swap;
(2) Notional amounts, quantity standards, or other unit size characteristics;
(3) Any applicable premiums or discounts for delivery of a non-par product;
(4) Trading hours and the listing of security-based swaps;
(5) Pricing basis for establishing the payment obligations under, and mark-to-market
value of, the security-based swap including, as applicable, the accrual start dates, termination, or
maturity dates, and, for each leg of the security-based swap, the initial cash flow components,
spreads, and points, and the relevant indexes, prices, rates, coupons, or other price reference
measures;
(6) Any price limits, trading halts, or circuit breaker provisions, and procedures for the
establishment of daily settlement prices;
(7) Payment and reset frequency, day count conventions, business calendars, and accrual
features;
(8) If physical delivery applies, delivery standards and procedures, including fees related
to delivery or the delivery process, alternatives to delivery, and applicable penalties or sanctions
for failure to perform;
(9) If cash-settled, the definition, composition, calculation, and revision of the cash
settlement price, and the settlement currency;
(10) Payment or collection of option premiums or margins;
(11) Option exercise price, if it is constant, and method for calculating the exercise price,
if it is variable;
(12) Threshold prices for an option, the existence of which is contingent upon those
400
prices;
(13) Any restrictions or requirements for exercising an option; and
(14) Life cycle events.
(z) Trading facility. (1) In general. The term trading facility means a person or group of
persons that constitutes, maintains, or provides a physical or electronic facility or system in
which multiple participants have the ability to execute or trade agreements, contracts, or
transactions—
(i) By accepting bids or offers made by other participants that are open to multiple
participants in the facility or system; or
(ii) Through the interaction of multiple bids or multiple offers within a system with a predetermined non-discretionary automated trade matching and execution algorithm.
(2) Exclusions. (i) The term trading facility does not include:
(A) A person or group of persons solely because the person or group of persons
constitutes, maintains, or provides an electronic facility or system that enables participants to
negotiate the terms of and enter into bilateral transactions as a result of communications
exchanged by the parties and not from interaction of multiple bids and multiple offers within a
predetermined, nondiscretionary automated trade matching and execution algorithm;
(B) A government securities dealer or government securities broker, to the extent that the
dealer or broker executes or trades agreements, contracts, or transactions in government
securities, or assists persons in communicating about, negotiating, entering into, executing, or
trading an agreement, contract, or transaction in government securities (as the terms government
securities dealer, government securities broker, and government securities are defined in section
3(a) of the Act); or
401
(C) A facility on which bids and offers, and acceptances of bids and offers effected on the
facility, are not binding.
(ii) Any person, group of persons, dealer, broker, or facility described in paragraph
(z)(2)(i)(A) through (z)(2)(i)(C) is excluded from the meaning of the term trading facility for the
purposes of this chapter without any prior specific approval, certification, or other action by
the Commission.
(3) Special rule. A person or group of persons that would not otherwise constitute
a trading facility shall not be considered to be a trading facility solely as a result of the
submission to a registered clearing agency of transactions executed on or through the person or
group of persons.
(aa) U.S. person has the same meaning as in § 240.3a71-3(a)(4).
§ 242.803 Requirements and procedures for registration.
(a) Requirements for registration. (1) Any person operating a facility that offers a
trading system or platform in which more than one market participant has the ability to execute
or trade security-based swaps with more than one other market participant on the system or
platform shall register the facility as a security-based swap execution facility under this section
or as a national securities exchange pursuant to section 6 of the Act.
(2) Minimum trading functionality. A security-based swap execution facility shall, at a
minimum, offer an order book.
(3) A security-based swap execution facility is not required to provide an order book
under this section for transactions defined in § 242.815(d)(2), (3), and (4) except that a securitybased swap execution facility must provide an order book under this section for Required
Transactions that are components of transactions defined in § 242.815(d)(2), (3), and (4) when
402
such Required Transactions are not executed as components of transactions defined
in § 242.815(d)(2), (3), and (4).
(b) Procedures for full registration. (1) An entity requesting registration as a securitybased swap execution facility shall:
(i) File electronically a complete Form SBSEF as set forth in § 249.2001, or any
successor forms, and all information and documentation described in such forms with the
Commission using the EDGAR system as an Interactive Data File in accordance with
§ 232.405); and
(ii) Provide to the Commission, upon the Commission’s request, any additional
information and documentation necessary to review an application.
(2) Request for confidential treatment. (i) An applicant requesting registration as a
security-based swap execution facility shall identify with particularity any information in the
application that will be subject to a request for confidential treatment pursuant § 240.24b-2.
(ii) As set forth in § 242.808, certain information provided in an application shall be
made publicly available.
(3) Amendment of application prior to full registration. An applicant amending a
pending application for registration as a security-based swap execution facility or requesting an
amendment to an order of registration shall file an amended application electronically with the
Commission using the EDGAR system as an Interactive Data File in accordance with § 232.405.
(4) Effect of incomplete application. If an application is incomplete pursuant to
paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the Commission shall notify the applicant that its application
will not be deemed to have been submitted for purposes of the Commission’s review.
(5) Commission review period. The Commission shall approve or deny an application for
403
registration as a security-based swap execution facility within 180 days of the filing of the
application. If the Commission notifies the person that its application is materially incomplete
and specifies the deficiencies in the application, the running of the 180-day period shall be stayed
from the time of such notification until the application is resubmitted in completed form,
provided that the Commission shall have not less than 60 days to approve or deny the application
from the time the application is resubmitted in completed form.
 (6) Commission determination. (i) The Commission shall issue an order granting
registration upon a Commission determination, in its own discretion, that the applicant has
demonstrated compliance with the Act and the Commission’s rules applicable to security-based
swap execution facilities. If deemed appropriate, the Commission may issue an order granting
registration subject to conditions.
(ii) The Commission may issue an order denying registration upon a Commission
determination, in its own discretion, that the applicant has not demonstrated compliance with the
Act and the Commission’s rules applicable to security-based swap execution facilities. If the
Commission denies an application, it shall specify the grounds for the denial.
(c) Reinstatement of dormant registration. A dormant security-based swap execution
facility may reinstate its registration under the procedures of paragraph (b) of this section. The
applicant may rely upon previously submitted materials if such materials accurately describe the
dormant security-based swap execution facility’s conditions at the time that it applies for
reinstatement of its registration.
(d) Request for transfer of registration. (1) A security-based swap execution facility
seeking to transfer its registration from its current legal entity to a new legal entity as a result of a
corporate change shall file a request for approval to transfer such registration with the
404
Commission in the form and manner specified by the Commission.
(2) Timeline for filing a request for transfer of registration. A request for transfer of
registration shall be filed no later than three months prior to the anticipated corporate change; or
in the event that the security-based swap execution facility could not have known of the
anticipated change three months prior to the anticipated change, as soon as it knows of such
change.
(3) Required information. The request for transfer of registration shall include the
following:
(i) The underlying agreement that governs the corporate change;
(ii) A description of the corporate change, including the reason for the change and its
impact on the security-based swap execution facility, including its governance and operations,
and its impact on the rights and obligations of members;
(iii) A discussion of the transferee’s ability to comply with the Act, including the core
principles applicable to security-based swap execution facilities and the Commission’s rules
thereunder;
(iv) The governing documents of the transferee, including, but not limited to, articles of
incorporation and bylaws;
(v) The transferee’s rules marked to show changes from the current rules of the securitybased swap execution facility;
(vi) A representation by the transferee that it:
(A) Will be the surviving entity and successor-in-interest to the transferor security-based
swap execution facility and will retain and assume, without limitation, all of the assets and
liabilities of the transferor;
405
(B) Will assume responsibility for complying with all applicable provisions of the Act
and the Commission’s rules thereunder;
(C) Will assume, maintain, and enforce all rules implementing and complying with the
core principles applicable to security-based swap execution facilities, including the adoption of
the transferor’s rulebook, as amended in the request, and that any such amendments will be
submitted to the Commission pursuant to § 242.806 or 242.807;
(D) Will comply with all regulatory responsibilities except if otherwise indicated in the
request, and will maintain and enforce all regulatory programs; and
(E) Will notify members of all changes to the transferor’s rulebook prior to the transfer
and will further notify members of the concurrent transfer of the registration to the transferee
upon Commission approval and issuance of an order permitting this transfer.
(vii) A representation by the transferee that upon the transfer:
(A) It will assume responsibility for and maintain compliance with core principles for all
security-based swaps previously made available for trading through the transferor, whether by
certification or approval; and
(B) None of the proposed rule changes will affect the rights and obligations of any
member.
(4) Commission determination. Upon review of a request for transfer of registration,
the Commission, as soon as practicable, shall issue an order either approving or denying the
request.
(e) Request for withdrawal of application for registration. An applicant for registration
as a security-based swap execution facility may withdraw its application submitted pursuant
to paragraph (b) of this section by filing a withdrawal request electronically with the
406
Commission using the EDGAR system as an Interactive Data File in accordance with § 232.405.
Withdrawal of an application for registration shall not affect any action taken or to be taken by
the Commission based upon actions, activities, or events occurring during the time that the
application was pending with the Commission.
(f) Request for vacation of registration. A security-based swap execution facility may
request that its registration be vacated by filing a vacation request electronically with the
Commission using the EDGAR system as an Interactive Data File in accordance with § 232.405
at least 90 days prior to the date that the vacation is requested to take effect. Upon receipt of
such request, the Commission shall promptly order the vacation to be effective upon the date
named in the request and send a copy of the request and its order to all other security-based swap
execution facilities, SBS exchanges, and registered clearing agencies that clear security-based
swaps. Vacation of registration shall not affect any action taken or to be taken by
the Commission based upon actions, activities, or events occurring during the time that the
security-based swap execution facility was registered by the Commission. From and after the
date upon which the vacation became effective the said security-based swap execution facility
can thereafter be registered again by applying to the Commission in the manner provided in
paragraph (b) of this section for an original application.
§ 242.804 Listing products for trading by certification.
(a) A security-based swap execution facility must comply with the submission
requirements of this section prior to listing a product for trading that has not been approved
under § 242.805 or that remains a dormant product subsequent to being submitted under this
section or approved under § 242.805 of this section. A submission shall comply with the
following conditions:
407
(1) The security-based swap execution facility has filed its submission electronically with
the Commission using the EDGAR system as an Interactive Data File in accordance with
§ 232.405;
(2) The Commission has received the submission by the open of business on the business
day that is ten business days preceding the product’s listing; and
(3) The submission includes:
(i) A copy of the submission cover sheet in accordance with the instructions in
§ 249.2002;
(ii) A copy of the product’s rules, including all rules related to its terms and conditions;
(iii) The intended listing date;
(iv) A certification by the security-based swap execution facility that the product to be
listed complies with the Act and the Commission’s rules thereunder;
(v) A concise explanation and analysis of the product and its compliance with applicable
provisions of the Act, including core principles, and the Commission’s rules thereunder. This
explanation and analysis shall either be accompanied by the documentation relied upon to
establish the basis for compliance with applicable law, or incorporate information contained in
such documentation, with appropriate citations to data sources;
(vi) A certification that the security-based swap execution facility posted a notice of
pending product certification with the Commission and a copy of the submission, concurrent
with the filing of a submission with the Commission, on the security-based swap execution
facility’s website. Information that the security-based swap execution facility seeks to keep
confidential may be redacted from the documents published on the security-based swap
execution’s website but must be republished consistent with any determination made pursuant
408
to § 240.24b-2; and
(vii) A request for confidential treatment, if appropriate, as permitted under § 240.24b-2.
(b) Additional information. If requested by Commission staff, a security-based swap
execution facility shall provide any additional evidence, information, or data that demonstrates
that the security-based swap meets, initially or on a continuing basis, the requirements of the Act
or the Commission‘s rules or policies thereunder.
(c) Stay of certification of product. (1) The Commission may stay the certification of a
product submitted pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section by issuing a notification informing
the security-based swap execution facility that the Commission is staying the certification of
the product on the grounds that the product presents novel or complex issues that require
additional time to analyze, the product is accompanied by an inadequate explanation, or the
product is potentially inconsistent with the Act or the Commission’s rules thereunder. The
Commission will have an additional 90 days from the date of the notification to conduct the
review.
(2) Public comment. The Commission shall provide a 30-day comment period within the
90-day period in which the stay is in effect, as described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section. The
Commission shall publish a notice of the 30-day comment period on the Commission’s website.
Comments from the public shall be submitted as specified in that notice.
(3) Expiration of a stay of certification of product. A product subject to a stay pursuant
to this paragraph shall become effective, pursuant to the certification, at the expiration of the 90-
day review period described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, unless the Commission
withdraws the stay prior to that time, or the Commission notifies the security-based swap
execution facility during the 90-day time period that it objects to the proposed certification on
409
the grounds that the product is inconsistent with the Act or the Commission’s rules.
§ 242.805 Voluntary submission of new products for Commission review and approval.
(a) Request for approval. A security-based swap execution facility may request that
the Commission approve a new or dormant product prior to listing the product for trading, or if a
product was initially submitted under § 242.804, subsequent to listing the product for trading. A
submission requesting approval shall:
(1) Be filed electronically with the Commission using the EDGAR system as an
Interactive Data File in accordance with § 232.405;
(2) Include a copy of the submission cover sheet in accordance with the instructions in
§ 249.2002;
(3) Include a copy of the rules that set forth the security-based swap’s terms and
conditions;
(4) Include an explanation and analysis of the product and its compliance with applicable
provisions of the Act, including the core principles and the Commission’s rules thereunder. This
explanation and analysis shall either be accompanied by the documentation relied upon to
establish the basis for compliance with the applicable law, or incorporate information contained
in such documentation, with appropriate citations to data sources;
(5) Describe any agreements or contracts entered into with other parties that enable
the security-based swap execution facility to carry out its responsibilities;
(6) Include, if appropriate, a request for confidential treatment as permitted
under § 240.24b-2;
(7) Certify that the security-based swap execution facility posted a notice of its request
for Commission approval of the new product and a copy of the submission, concurrent with the
410
filing of a submission with the Commission, on the security-based swap execution facility’s
website. Information that the security-based swap execution facility seeks to keep confidential
may be redacted from the documents published on the security-based swap execution facility’s
website but must be republished consistent with any determination made pursuant to § 240.24b2; and
(8) Include, if requested by Commission staff, additional evidence, information, or data
demonstrating that the security-based swap meets, initially or on a continuing basis, the
requirements of the Act, or other requirement for registration under the Act, or the Commission’s
rules or policies thereunder. The security-based swap execution facility shall submit the
requested information by the open of business on the date that is two business days from the date
of request by Commission staff, or at the conclusion of such extended period agreed to
by Commission staff after timely receipt of a written request from the security-based swap
execution facility.
(b) Standard for review and approval. The Commission shall approve a new product
unless the terms and conditions of the product violate the Act or the Commission’s rules
thereunder.
(c) 45-day review. A product submitted for Commission approval under this paragraph
shall be deemed approved by the Commission 45 days after receipt by the Commission, or at the
conclusion of an extended period as provided under paragraph (d) of this section, unless notified
otherwise within the applicable period, if:
(1) The submission complies with the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section; and
(2) The submitting security-based swap execution facility does not amend the terms or
conditions of the product or supplement the request for approval, except as requested by
411
the Commission or for correction of typographical errors, renumbering, or other non-substantive
revisions, during that period. Any voluntary, substantive amendment by the security-based swap
execution facility will be treated as a new submission under this section.
(d) Extension of time. The Commission may extend the 45-day review period in
paragraph (c) of this section for:
(1) An additional 45 days, if the product raises novel or complex issues that require
additional time to analyze, in which case the Commission shall notify the security-based swap
execution facility within the initial 45-day review period and shall briefly describe the nature of
the specific issue(s) for which additional time for review is required; or
(2) Any extended review period to which the security-based swap execution
facility agrees in writing.
(e) Notice of non-approval. The Commission, at any time during its review under this
section, may notify the security-based swap execution facility that it will not, or is unable to,
approve the product. This notification will briefly specify the nature of the issues raised and the
specific provision of the Act or the Commission’s rules thereunder, including the form or content
requirements of paragraph (a) of this section, that the product violates, appears to violate, or
potentially violates but which cannot be ascertained from the submission.
(f) Effect of non-approval. (1) Notification to a security-based swap execution
facility under paragraph (e) of this section of the Commission’s determination not to approve a
product does not prejudice the security-based swap execution facility from subsequently
submitting a revised version of the product for Commission approval, or from submitting the
product as initially proposed pursuant to a supplemented submission.
(2) Notification to a security-based swap execution facility under paragraph (e) of this
412
section of the Commission’s refusal to approve a product shall be presumptive evidence that the
security-based swap execution facility may not truthfully certify under § 242.804 that the same,
or substantially the same, product does not violate the Act or the Commission’s rules thereunder.
§ 242.806 Voluntary submission of rules for Commission review and approval.
(a) Request for approval of rules. A security-based swap execution facility may request
that the Commission approve a new rule, rule amendment, or dormant rule prior to
implementation of the rule, or if the request was initially submitted under § 242.806 or 242.807,
subsequent to implementation of the rule. A request for approval shall:
(1) Be filed electronically with the Commission using the EDGAR system as an
Interactive Data File in accordance with § 232.405;
(2) Include a copy of the submission cover sheet in accordance with the instructions in
appendix B to Regulation SE;
(3) Set forth the text of the rule or rule amendment (in the case of a rule amendment,
deletions and additions must be indicated);
(4) Describe the proposed effective date of the rule or rule amendment and any action
taken or anticipated to be taken to adopt the proposed rule by the security-based swap execution
facility or by its governing board or by any committee thereof, and cite the rules of the securitybased swap execution facility that authorize the adoption of the proposed rule;
(5) Provide an explanation and analysis of the operation, purpose, and effect of the
proposed rule or rule amendment and its compliance with applicable provisions of the Act,
including the core principles relating to security-based swap execution facilities and
the Commission’s rules thereunder and, as applicable, a description of the anticipated benefits to
market participants or others, any potential anticompetitive effects on market participants or
413
others, and how the rule fits into the security-based swap execution facility’s framework of
regulation;
(6) Certify that the security-based swap execution facility posted a notice of pending rule
with the Commission and a copy of the submission, concurrent with the filing of a submission
with the Commission, on the security-based swap execution facility’s website. Information that
the security-based swap execution facility seeks to keep confidential may be redacted from the
documents published on the security-based swap execution facility’s website but must be
republished consistent with any determination made pursuant to § 240.24b-2;
(7) Provide additional information which may be beneficial to the Commission in
analyzing the new rule or rule amendment. If a proposed rule affects, directly or indirectly, the
application of any other rule of the security-based swap execution facility, the pertinent text of
any such rule must be set forth and the anticipated effect described;
(8) Provide a brief explanation of any substantive opposing views expressed to the
security-based swap execution facility by governing board or committee members, members of
the security-based swap execution facility, or market participants that were not incorporated into
the rule, or a statement that no such opposing views were expressed; and
(9) As appropriate, include a request for confidential treatment as permitted under
§ 240.24b-2.
(b) Standard for review and approval. The Commission shall approve a new rule or
rule amendment unless the rule or rule amendment is inconsistent with the Act or the
Commission’s rules thereunder.
(c) 45-day review. A rule or rule amendment submitted for Commission approval
under paragraph (a) of this section shall be deemed approved by the Commission 45 days after
414
receipt by the Commission, or at the conclusion of such extended period as provided
under paragraph (d) of this section, unless the security-based swap execution facility is notified
otherwise within the applicable period, if:
(1) The submission complies with the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section;
(2) The security-based swap execution facility does not amend the proposed rule or
supplement the submission, except as requested by the Commission, during the pendency of the
review period, other than for correction of typographical errors, renumbering, or other nonsubstantive revisions. Any amendment or supplementation not requested by the Commission
will be treated as the submission of a new filing under this section.
(d) Extension of time for review. The Commission may further extend the review period
in paragraph (c) of this section for:
(1) An additional 45 days, if the proposed rule or rule amendment raises novel or
complex issues that require additional time for review or is of major economic significance, the
submission is incomplete, or the requestor does not respond completely to Commission questions
in a timely manner, in which case the Commission shall notify the submitting security-based
swap execution facility within the initial 45-day review period and shall briefly describe the
nature of the specific issues for which additional time for review shall be required; or
(2) Any period, beyond the additional 45 days provided in paragraph (d)(1) of this
section, to which the security-based swap execution facility agrees in writing.
(e) Notice of non-approval. Any time during its review under this section, the
Commission may notify the security-based swap execution facility that it will not, or is unable
to, approve the new rule or rule amendment. This notification will briefly specify the nature of
the issues raised and the specific provision of the Act or the Commission’s rules thereunder,
415
including the form or content requirements of this section, with which the new rule or rule
amendment is inconsistent or appears to be inconsistent with the Act or the Commission’s rules
thereunder.
(f) Effect of non-approval. (1) Notification to a security-based swap execution facility
under paragraph (e) of this section does not prevent the security-based swap execution facility
from subsequently submitting a revised version of the proposed rule or rule amendment for
Commission review and approval or from submitting the new rule or rule amendment as initially
proposed in a supplemented submission. The revised submission will be reviewed without
prejudice.
(2) Notification to a security-based swap execution facility under paragraph (e) of this
section of the Commission’s determination not to approve a proposed rule or rule amendment
shall be presumptive evidence that the security-based swap execution facility may not truthfully
certify the same, or substantially the same, proposed rule or rule amendment under § 242.807(a).
(g) Expedited approval. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (c) of this section,
changes to a proposed rule or a rule amendment, including changes to terms and conditions of a
product that are consistent with the Act and the Commission’s rules thereunder, may be
approved by the Commission at such time and under such conditions as the Commission shall
specify in the written notification; provided, however, that the Commission may, at any time,
alter or revoke the applicability of such a notice to any particular product or rule amendment.
§ 242.807 Self-certification of rules.
(a) Required certification. A security-based swap execution facility shall comply with
the following conditions prior to implementing any rule—other than a rule delisting or
withdrawing the certification of a product with no open interest and submitted in compliance
416
with paragraphs (a)(1)-(2) and (6) of this section—that has not obtained Commission approval
under § 242.806 of this part, or that remains a dormant rule subsequent to being submitted under
this section or approved under § 242.806 of this part.
(1) The security-based swap execution facility has filed its submission electronically with
the Commission using the EDGAR system as an Interactive Data File in accordance with
§ 232.405.
(2) The security-based swap execution facility has provided a certification that it posted a
notice of pending certification with the Commission and a copy of the submission, concurrent
with the filing of a submission with the Commission, on the security-based swap execution
facility’s website. Information that the security-based swap execution facility seeks to keep
confidential may be redacted from the documents published on the security-based swap
execution facility’s website but it must be republished consistent with any determination made
pursuant to § 240.24b-2.
(3) The Commission has received the submission not later than the open of business on
the business day that is ten business days prior to the security-based swap execution facility’s
implementation of the rule or rule amendment.
(4) The Commission has not stayed the submission pursuant to § 242.807(c).
(5) Emergency rule certifications. (i) A new rule or rule amendment that establishes
standards for responding to an emergency shall be submitted pursuant to § 242.807(a).
(ii) A rule or rule amendment implemented under procedures of the governing board to
respond to an emergency shall, if practicable, be filed with the Commission prior to
implementation or, if not practicable, be filed with the Commission at the earliest possible time
after implementation, but in no event more than 24 hours after implementation. Any such
417
submission shall be subject to the certification and stay provisions of paragraphs (b) and (c) of
this section.
(6) The rule submission shall include:
(i) A copy of the submission cover sheet in accordance with the instructions in
§ 249.2002 (in the case of a rule or rule amendment that responds to an emergency,
“Emergency Rule Certification” should be noted in the description section of the submission
cover sheet);
(ii) The text of the rule (in the case of a rule amendment, deletions and additions must be
indicated);
(iii) The date of intended implementation;
(iv) A certification by the security-based swap execution facility that the rule complies
with the Act and the Commission’s rules thereunder;
(v) A concise explanation and analysis of the operation, purpose, and effect of the
proposed rule or rule amendment and its compliance with applicable provisions of the Act,
including core principles relating to security-based swap execution facilities and the
Commission’s rules thereunder;
(vi) A brief explanation of any substantive opposing views expressed to the securitybased swap execution facility by governing board or committee members, members of the
security-based swap execution facility, or market participants, that were not incorporated into
the rule, or a statement that no such opposing views were expressed; and
(vii) As appropriate, a request for confidential treatment pursuant to the procedures
provided in § 240.24b-2.
(7) The security-based swap execution facility shall provide, if requested by Commission
418
staff, additional evidence, information, or data that may be beneficial to the Commission in
conducting a due diligence assessment of the filing and the security-based swap execution
facility’s compliance with any of the requirements of the Act or the Commission’s rules or
policies thereunder.
(b) Review by the Commission. The Commission shall have ten business days to review
the new rule or rule amendment before the new rule or rule amendment is deemed certified and
can be made effective, unless the Commission notifies the security-based swap execution facility
during the ten-business-day review period that it intends to issue a stay of the certification
under paragraph (c) of this section.
(c) Stay. (1) Stay of certification of new rule or rule amendment. The Commission may
stay the certification of a new rule or rule amendment submitted pursuant to paragraph (a) of this
section by issuing a notification informing the security-based swap execution facility that the
Commission is staying the certification of the rule or rule amendment on the grounds that the
rule or rule amendment presents novel or complex issues that require additional time to analyze,
the rule or rule amendment is accompanied by an inadequate explanation, or the rule or rule
amendment is potentially inconsistent with the Act or the Commission’s rules thereunder.
The Commission will have an additional 90 days from the date of the notification to conduct the
review.
(2) Public comment. The Commission shall provide a 30-day comment period within the
90-day period in which the stay is in effect, as described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section. The
Commission shall publish a notice of the 30-day comment period on the Commission website.
Comments from the public shall be submitted as specified in that notice.
(3) Expiration of a stay of certification of new rule or rule amendment. A new rule
419
or rule amendment subject to a stay pursuant to this paragraph shall become effective, pursuant
to the certification, at the expiration of the 90-day review period described in paragraph (c)(1) of
this section, unless the Commission withdraws the stay prior to that time, or the Commission
notifies the security-based swap execution facility during the 90-day time period that it objects to
the proposed certification on the grounds that the proposed rule or rule amendment is
inconsistent with the Act or the Commission’s rules thereunder.
(d) Notification of rule amendments. Notwithstanding the rule certification requirement
of paragraph (a) of this section, a security-based swap execution facility may place the
following rules or rule amendments into effect without certification to the Commission if the
following conditions are met:
(1) The security-based swap execution facility provides to the Commission at least
weekly a summary notice of all rule amendments made effective pursuant to this paragraph
during the preceding week. Such notice must be labeled “Weekly Notification of Rule
Amendments” and need not be filed for weeks during which no such actions have been taken.
One copy of each such submission shall be furnished electronically using the EDGAR system as
an Interactive Data File in accordance with § 232.405; and
(2) The rule governs: (i) Non-substantive revisions. Corrections of typographical errors,
renumbering, periodic routine updates to identifying information about the security-based swap
execution facility, and other such non-substantive revisions of a product’s terms and
conditions that have no effect on the economic characteristics of the product;
(ii) Fees. Fees or fee changes, other than fees or fee changes associated with market
making or trading incentive programs, that:
(A) Total $1.00 or more per contract, and
420
(B) Are established by an independent third party or are unrelated to delivery, trading,
clearing, or dispute resolution.
(iii) Survey lists. Changes to lists of banks, brokers, dealers, or other entities that provide
price or cash market information to an independent third party and that are incorporated by
reference as product terms;
(iv) Approved brands. Changes in lists of approved brands or markings pursuant to
previously certified or Commission approved standards or criteria;
(v) Trading months. The initial listing of trading months, which may qualify for
implementation without notice pursuant to paragraph (d)(3)(ii)(H) of this section, within the
currently established cycle of trading months; or
(vi) Minimum tick. Reductions in the minimum price fluctuation (or “tick”).
(3) Notification of rule amendments not required. Notwithstanding the rule certification
requirements of paragraph (a) of this section, a security-based swap execution facility may place
the following rules or rule amendments into effect without certification or notice to the
Commission if the following conditions are met:
(i) The security-based swap execution facility maintains documentation regarding all
changes to rules; and
(ii) The rule governs:
(A) Transfer of membership or ownership. Procedures and forms for the purchase, sale,
or transfer of membership or ownership, but not including qualifications for membership or
ownership, any right or obligation of membership or ownership, or dues or assessments;
(B) Administrative procedures. The organization and administrative procedures of
a security-based swap execution facility’s governing bodies such as a governing board, officers,
421
and committees, but not voting requirements, governing board, or committee composition
requirements or procedures, decision-making procedures, use or disclosure of material nonpublic information gained through the performance of official duties, or requirements relating to
conflicts of interest;
(C) Administration. The routine daily administration, direction, and control of
employees, requirements relating to gratuity and similar funds, but not guaranty, reserves, or
similar funds; declaration of holidays; and changes to facilities housing the market, trading floor,
or trading area;
(D) Standards of decorum. Standards of decorum or attire or similar provisions relating
to admission to the floor, badges, or visitors, but not the establishment of penalties for violations
of such rules; and
(E) Fees. Fees or fee changes, other than fees or fee changes associated with market
making or trading incentive programs, that:
(1) Are less than $1.00; or
(2) Relate to matters such as dues, badges, telecommunication services, booth space, realtime quotations, historical information, publications, software licenses, or other matters that are
administrative in nature.
(F) Trading months. The initial listing of trading months which are within the currently
established cycle of trading months.
§ 242.808 Availability of public information.
(a) The Commission shall make publicly available on its website the following parts of an
application to register as a security-based swap execution facility, unless confidential treatment
is obtained pursuant to § 240.24b-2:
422
(i) Transmittal letter and first page of the application cover sheet;
(ii) Exhibit C;
(iii) Exhibit G;
(iv) Exhibit L; and
(v) Exhibit M.
(b) The Commission shall make publicly available on its website, unless confidential
treatment is obtained pursuant to § 240.24b-2, a security-based swap execution facility’s filing of
new products pursuant to the self-certification procedures of § 242.804, new products
for Commission review and approval pursuant to § 242.805, new rules and rule amendments for
Commission review and approval pursuant to § 242.806, and new rules and rule amendments
pursuant to the self-certification procedures of § 242.807.
(c) The terms and conditions of a product submitted to the Commission pursuant to
§ 242.804, 242.805, 242.806, or 242.807 shall be made publicly available at the time of
submission unless confidential treatment is obtained pursuant to § 240.24b-2.
§ 242.809 Staying of certification and tolling of review period pending jurisdictional
determination.
(a) A product certification made by a security-based swap execution facility pursuant to
§ 242.804 shall be stayed, or the review period for a product that has been submitted for
Commission approval by a security-based swap execution facility pursuant to § 242.805 shall be
tolled, upon request for a joint interpretation of whether the product is a swap, security-based
swap, or mixed swap made pursuant to § 240.3a68-2 by the security-based swap execution
facility, the Commission, or the Commodity Futures Trading Commission.
(b) The Commission shall provide the security-based swap execution facility with a
423
written notice of the stay or tolling pending issuance of a joint interpretation.
(c) The stay shall be withdrawn, or the approval review period shall resume, if a joint
interpretation finding that the Commission has jurisdiction over the product is issued.
§ 242.810 Product filings by security-based swap execution facilities that are not yet
registered and by dormant security-based swap execution facilities.
(a) An applicant for registration as a security-based swap execution facility may submit a
security-based swap’s terms and conditions prior to listing the product as part of its application
for registration.
(b) Any security-based swap terms and conditions or rules submitted as part of a securitybased swap execution facility’s application for registration shall be considered for approval by
the Commission at the time the Commission issues the security-based swap execution facility’s
order of registration.
(c) After the Commission issues the order of registration, the security-based swap
execution facility shall submit a security-based swap’s terms and conditions, including
amendments to such terms and conditions, new rules, or rule amendments pursuant to the
procedures in §§ 242.804, 242.805, 242.806, and 242.807.
(d) Any security-based swap terms and conditions or rules submitted as part of an
application to reinstate the registration of a dormant security-based swap execution facility shall
be considered for approval by the Commission at the time the Commission approves the
reinstatement of registration of the dormant security-based swap execution facility.
§ 242.811 Information relating to security-based swap execution facility compliance.
(a) Request for information. Upon the Commission’s request, a security-based swap
execution facility shall file with the Commission information related to its business as a security-
424
based swap execution facility in the form and manner, and within the timeframe, specified by the
Commission.
(b) Demonstration of compliance. Upon the Commission’s request, a security-based
swap execution facility shall file with the Commission a written demonstration, containing
supporting data, information, and documents, that it is in compliance with one or more core
principles or with its other obligations under the Act or the Commission’s rules thereunder, as
the Commission specifies in its request. The security-based swap execution facility shall file
such written demonstration in the form and manner, and within the timeframe, specified by the
Commission.
(c) Equity interest transfer. (1) Equity interest transfer notification. A security-based
swap execution facility shall file with the Commission a notification of any transaction involving
the direct or indirect transfer of 50 percent or more of the equity interest in the security-based
swap execution facility. The Commission may, upon receiving such notification, request
supporting documentation of the transaction.
(2) Timing of notification. The equity interest transfer notice described in paragraph
(c)(1) of this section shall be filed with the Commission in a form and manner specified by the
Commission at the earliest possible time, but in no event later than the open of business ten
business days following the date upon which the security-based swap execution facility enters
into a firm obligation to transfer the equity interest.
(3) Rule filing. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any aspect of an equity interest transfer
described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section requires a security-based swap execution facility to
file a rule, the security-based swap execution facility shall comply with the applicable rule filing
requirements of § 242.806 or 242.807.
425
(4) Certification. Upon a transfer of an equity interest of 50 percent or more in a
security-based swap execution facility, the security-based swap execution facility shall file with
the Commission, in a form and manner specified by the Commission, a certification that the
security-based swap execution facility meets all of the requirements of section 3D of the Act and
the Commission rules thereunder, no later than two business days following the date on which
the equity interest of 50 percent or more was acquired.
(d) Pending legal proceedings. (1) A security-based swap execution facility shall submit
to the Commission a copy of the complaint, any dispositive or partially dispositive decision, any
notice of appeal filed concerning such decision, and such further documents as the Commission
may thereafter request filed in any material legal proceeding to which the security-based swap
execution facility is a party or its property or assets is subject.
(2) A security-based swap execution facility shall submit to the Commission a copy of
the complaint, any dispositive or partially dispositive decision, any notice of appeal filed
concerning such decision, and such further documents as the Commission may thereafter request
filed in any material legal proceeding instituted against any officer, director, or other official of
the security-based swap execution facility from conduct in such person’s capacity as an official
of the security-based swap execution facility and alleging violations of:
(i) The Act or any rule, regulation, or order thereunder;
(ii) The constitution, bylaws, or rules of the security-based swap execution facility; or
(iii) The applicable provisions of state law relating to the duties of officers, directors, or
other officials of business organizations.
(3) All documents required by this paragraph (d) to be submitted to the Commission shall
be submitted electronically in a form and manner specified by the Commission within ten days
426
after the initiation of the legal proceedings to which they relate, after the date of issuance, or
after receipt by the security-based swap execution facility of the notice of appeal, as the case
may be.
(4) For purposes of this paragraph (d), a “material legal proceeding” includes but is not
limited to actions involving alleged violations of the Act or the Commission rules thereunder.
However, a legal proceeding is not “material” for the purposes of this rule if the proceeding is
not in a federal or state court or if the Commission is a party.
§ 242.812 Enforceability.
(a) A transaction entered into on or pursuant to the rules of a security-based swap
execution facility shall not be void, voidable, subject to rescission, otherwise invalidated, or
rendered unenforceable as a result of a violation by the security-based swap execution facility of
the provisions of section 3D of the Act or the Commission’s rules thereunder.
(b) A security-based swap execution facility shall, as soon as technologically practicable
after the time of execution of a transaction entered into on or pursuant to the rules of the facility,
provide a written record to each counterparty of all of the terms of the transaction that were
agreed to on the facility, which shall legally supersede any previous agreement regarding such
terms.
§ 242.813 Prohibited use of data collected for regulatory purposes.
A security-based swap execution facility shall not use for business or marketing purposes
any proprietary data or personal information it collects or receives, from or on behalf of any
person, for the purpose of fulfilling its regulatory obligations; provided, however, that a securitybased swap execution facility may use such data or information for business or marketing
purposes if the person from whom it collects or receives such data or information clearly
427
consents to the security-based swap execution facility’s use of such data or information in such
manner. A security-based swap execution facility shall not condition access to its market(s) or
market services on a person’s consent to the security-based swap execution facility’s use of
proprietary data or personal information for business or marketing purposes. A security-based
swap execution facility, where necessary for regulatory purposes, may share such data or
information with one or more security-based swap execution facilities or national securities
exchanges registered with the Commission.
§ 242.814 Entity operating both a national securities exchange and security-based swap
execution facility.
(a) An entity that intends to operate both a national securities exchange and a securitybased swap execution facility shall separately register the two facilities pursuant to section 6 of
the Act and § 242.803, respectively.
(b) A national securities exchange shall, to the extent that the exchange also operates a
security-based swap execution facility and uses the same electronic trade execution system for
listing and executing trades of security-based swaps on or through the exchange and the facility,
identify whether electronic trading of such security-based swaps is taking place on or through the
national securities exchange or the security-based swap execution facility.
§ 242.815 Methods of execution for Required and Permitted Transactions.
(a) Execution methods for required transactions. (1) Required Transaction means any
transaction involving a security-based swap that is subject to the trade execution requirement in
section 3C(h) of the Act.
(2) Execution methods. (i) Each Required Transaction that is not a block trade shall be
executed on a security-based swap execution facility in accordance with one of the following
428
methods of execution, except as provided in paragraph (d) or (e) of this section:
(A) An order book; or
(B) A request-for-quote system that operates in conjunction with an order book.
(ii) In providing either one of the execution methods set forth in paragraph (a)(2)(i)(A) or
(B) of this section, a security-based swap execution facility may for purposes of execution and
communication use any means of interstate commerce, including, but not limited to, the mail,
internet, email, and telephone, provided that the chosen execution method satisfies the
requirements for order books in § 242.800(x) or in paragraph (a)(3) of this section for requestfor-quote systems.
(3) Request-for-quote system means a trading system or platform in which a market
participant transmits a request for a quote to buy or sell a specific instrument to no less than three
market participants in the trading system or platform, to which all such market participants may
respond. The three market participants shall not be affiliates of or controlled by the requester
and shall not be affiliates of or controlled by each other. A security-based swap execution
facility that offers a request-for-quote system in connection with Required Transactions shall
provide the following functionality:
(i) At the same time that the requester receives the first responsive bid or offer, the
security-based swap execution facility shall communicate to the requester any firm bid or offer
pertaining to the same instrument resting on any of the security-based swap execution facility’s
order books;
(ii) The security-based swap execution facility shall provide the requester with the ability
to execute against such firm resting bids or offers along with any responsive orders; and
(iii) The security-based swap execution facility shall ensure that its trading protocols
429
provide each of its market participants with equal priority in receiving requests for quotes and in
transmitting and displaying for execution responsive orders.
(b) Time delay requirement for Required Transactions on an order book. (1) Time delay
requirement. A security-based swap execution facility shall require that a broker or dealer who
seeks to either execute against its customer’s order or execute two of its customers’ orders
against each other through the security-based swap execution facility’s order book, following
some form of pre-arrangement or pre-negotiation of such orders, be subject to at least a 15-
second time delay between the entry of those two orders into the order book, such that one side
of the potential transaction is disclosed and made available to other market participants before
the second side of the potential transaction, whether for the broker’s or dealer’s own account or
for a second customer, is submitted for execution.
(2) Adjustment of time delay requirement. A security-based swap execution facility may
adjust the time period of the 15-second time delay requirement described in paragraph (b)(1) of
this section, based upon a security-based swap’s liquidity or other product-specific
considerations; however, the time delay shall be set for a sufficient period of time so that
an order is exposed to the market and other market participants have a meaningful opportunity to
execute against such order.
(c) Execution methods for permitted transactions. (1) Permitted Transaction means any
transaction not involving a security-based swap that is subject to the trade execution requirement
in section 3C(h) of the Act.
(2) Execution methods. A security-based swap execution facility may offer any method
of execution for each Permitted Transaction.
(d) Exceptions to required methods of execution for package transactions. (1) For
430
purposes of this paragraph, a package transaction consists of two or more component
transactions executed between two or more counterparties where:
(i) At least one component transaction is a Required Transaction;
(ii) Execution of each component transaction is contingent upon the execution of all other
component transactions; and
(iii) The component transactions are priced or quoted together as one economic
transaction with simultaneous or near-simultaneous execution of all components.
(2) A Required Transaction that is executed as a component of a package transaction that
includes a component security-based swap that is subject exclusively to the Commission’s
jurisdiction, but is not subject to the clearing requirement under section 3C of the Act, may be
executed on a security-based swap execution facility in accordance with paragraph (c)(2) of this
section as if it were a Permitted Transaction;
(3) A Required Transaction that is executed as a component of a package transaction that
includes a component that is not a security-based swap may be executed on a security-based
swap execution facility in accordance with paragraph (c)(2) of this section as if it were a
Permitted Transaction. This provision shall not apply to:
(i) A Required Transaction that is executed as a component of a package transaction in
which all other non-security-based swap components are U.S. Treasury securities;
(ii) A Required Transaction that is executed as a component of a package transaction in
which all other non-security-based swap components are contracts for the purchase or sale of
a commodity for future delivery;
(iii) A Required Transaction that is executed as a component of a package transaction in
which all other non-security-based swap components are agency mortgage-backed securities; and
431
(iv) A Required Transaction that is executed as a component of a package transaction that
includes a component transaction that is the issuance of a bond in a primary market.
(4) A Required Transaction that is executed as a component of a package transaction that
includes a component security-based swap that is not exclusively subject to the Commission’s
jurisdiction may be executed on a security-based swap in accordance with paragraph (c)(2) of
this section as if it were a Permitted Transaction.
(e) Resolution of operational and clerical error trades. (1) A security-based swap
execution facility shall maintain rules and procedures that facilitate the resolution of error trades.
Such rules shall be fair, transparent, and consistent; allow for timely resolution; require members
to provide prompt notice of an error trade—and, as applicable, offsetting and correcting trades—
to the security-based swap execution facility; and permit members to:
(i) Execute a correcting trade, in accordance with paragraph (c)(2) of this section,
regardless of whether it is a Required or Permitted Transaction, for an error trade that has been
rejected from clearing as soon as technologically practicable, but no later than one hour after a
registered clearing agency provides notice of the rejection; or
(ii) Execute an offsetting trade and a correcting trade, in accordance with paragraph
(c)(2) of this section, regardless of whether it is a Required or Permitted Transaction, for an error
trade that was accepted for clearing as soon as technologically practicable, but no later than three
days after the error trade was accepted for clearing at a registered clearing agency.
(2) If a correcting trade is rejected from clearing, then the security-based swap execution
facility shall not allow the counterparties to execute another correcting trade.
(f) Counterparty anonymity. (1) Except as otherwise required under the Act or
the Commission’s rules thereunder, a security-based swap execution facility shall not directly or
432
indirectly, including through a third-party service provider, disclose the identity of a counterparty
to a security-based swap that is executed anonymously and intended to be cleared.
(2) A security-based swap execution facility shall establish and enforce rules that prohibit
any person from directly or indirectly, including through a third-party service provider,
disclosing the identity of a counterparty to a security-based swap execution facility that is
executed anonymously and intended to be cleared.
(3) For purposes of paragraphs (f)(1) and (2) of this section, “executed anonymously”
shall include a security-based swap that is pre-arranged or pre-negotiated anonymously,
including by a member of the security-based swap execution facility.
(4) For a package transaction that includes a component transaction that is not a securitybased swap intended to be cleared, disclosing the identity of a counterparty shall not violate
paragraph (f)(1) or (2) of this section. For purposes of this paragraph, a “package transaction”
consists of two or more component transactions executed between two or more counterparties
where:
(i) Execution of each component transaction is contingent upon the execution of all other
component transactions; and
(ii) The component transactions are priced or quoted together as one economic
transaction with simultaneous or near-simultaneous execution of all components.
§ 242.816 Trade execution requirement and exemptions therefrom.
(a)(1) Required submission. A security-based swap execution facility that makes a
security-based swap available to trade in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section, shall
submit to the Commission its determination with respect to such security-based swap as a rule,
pursuant to the procedures under § 242.806 or 242.807.
433
(2) Listing requirement. A security-based swap execution facility that makes a securitybased swap available to trade must demonstrate that it lists or offers that security-based swap for
trading on its trading system or platform.
(b) Factors to consider. To make a security-based swap available to trade for purposes of
section 3C(h) of the Act, a security-based swap execution facility shall consider, as appropriate,
the following factors with respect to such security-based swap:
(1) Whether there are ready and willing buyers and sellers;
(2) The frequency or size of transactions;
(3) The trading volume;
(4) The number and types of market participants;
(5) The bid/ask spread; or
(6) The usual number of resting firm or indicative bids and offers.
(c) Applicability. Upon a determination that a security-based swap is available to trade
on a security-based swap execution facility or national securities exchange, all other securitybased swap execution facilities and SBS exchanges shall comply with the requirements of
section 3C(h) of the Act in listing or offering such security-based swap for trading.
(d) Removal. The Commission may issue a determination that a security-based swap is
no longer available to trade upon determining that no security-based swap execution facility or
SBS exchange lists such security-based swap for trading.
(e) Exemptions to trade execution requirement. (1) A security-based swap transaction
that is executed as a component of a package transaction that also includes a component
transaction that is the issuance of a bond in a primary market is exempt from the trade execution
requirement in section 3C(h) of the Act. For purposes of paragraph (e) of this section, a package
434
transaction consists of two or more component transactions executed between two or more
counterparties where:
(i) At least one component transaction is subject to the trade execution requirement in
section 3C(h) of the Act;
(ii) Execution of each component transaction is contingent upon the execution of all other
component transactions; and
(iii) The component transactions are priced or quoted together as one economic
transaction with simultaneous or near-simultaneous execution of all components.
(2) Section 3C(h) of the Act does not apply to a security-based swap transaction that
qualifies for an exception under section 3C(g) of the Act, or any exemption from the clearing
requirement that is granted by the Commission, for which the associated requirements are met.
(3)(i) Section 3C(h) of the Act does not apply to a security-based swap transaction that is
executed between counterparties that qualify as “eligible affiliate counterparties,” as defined
below.
(ii) For purposes of this paragraph (e)(3), counterparties will be “eligible affiliate
counterparties” if:
(A) One counterparty, directly or indirectly, holds a majority ownership interest in the
other counterparty, and the counterparty that holds the majority interest in the other counterparty
reports its financial statements on a consolidated basis under Generally Accepted Accounting
Principles or International Financial Reporting Standards, and such consolidated financial
statements include the financial results of the majority-owned counterparty; or
(B) A third party, directly or indirectly, holds a majority ownership interest in both
counterparties, and the third party reports its financial statements on a consolidated basis under
435
Generally Accepted Accounting Principles or International Financial Reporting Standards, and
such consolidated financial statements include the financial results of both of the counterparties.
(iii) For purposes of this paragraph (e)(3), a counterparty or third party directly or
indirectly holds a majority ownership interest if it directly or indirectly holds a majority of the
equity securities of an entity, or the right to receive upon dissolution, or the contribution of, a
majority of the capital of a partnership.
§ 242.817 Trade execution compliance schedule.
(a) A security-based swap transaction shall be subject to the requirements of section
3C(h) of the Act upon the later of:
(1) A determination by the Commission that the security-based swap is required to be
cleared as set forth in section 3C(a) or any later compliance date that the Commission may
establish as a term or condition of such determination or following a stay and review of such
determination pursuant to section 3C(c) of the Act and § 240.3Ca-1 thereunder; and
(2) 30 days after the available-to-trade determination submission or certification for that
security-based swap is, respectively, deemed approved under § 242.806 or deemed certified
under § 242.807.
(b) Nothing in this section shall prohibit any counterparty from complying voluntarily
with the requirements of section 3C(h) of the Act sooner than as provided in paragraph (a) of this
section.
§ 242.818 Core Principle 1—Compliance with core principles.
(a) In general. To be registered, and maintain registration, as a security-based swap
execution facility, the security-based swap execution facility shall comply with the core
principles described in section 3D of the Act, and any requirement that the Commission may
436
impose by rule or regulation.
(b) Reasonable discretion of security-based swap execution facility. Unless otherwise
determined by the Commission, by rule or regulation, a security-based swap execution facility
described in paragraph (a) of this section shall have reasonable discretion in establishing the
manner in which it complies with the core principles described in section 3D of the Act.
§ 242.819 Core Principle 2—Compliance with rules.
(a) General. A security-based swap execution facility shall:
(1) Establish and enforce compliance with any rule established by such security-based
swap execution facility, including the terms and conditions of the security-based swaps traded or
processed on or through the facility, and any limitation on access to the facility;
(2) Establish and enforce trading, trade processing, and participation rules that will deter
abuses and have the capacity to detect, investigate, and enforce those rules, including means to
provide market participants with impartial access to the market and to capture information that
may be used in establishing whether rule violations have occurred; and
(3) Establish rules governing the operation of the facility, including rules specifying
trading procedures to be used in entering and executing orders traded or posted on the facility,
including block trades.
(b) Operation of security-based swap execution facility and compliance with rules. (1) A
security-based swap execution facility shall establish rules governing the operation of the
security-based swap execution facility, including, but not limited to, rules specifying trading
procedures to be followed by members when entering and executing orders traded or posted on
the security-based swap execution facility, including block trades, if offered.
(2) A security-based swap execution facility shall establish and impartially enforce
437
compliance with the rules of the security-based swap execution facility, including, but not
limited to:
(i) The terms and conditions of any security-based swaps traded or processed on or
through the security-based swap execution facility;
(ii) Access to the security-based swap execution facility;
(iii) Trade practice rules;
(iv) Audit trail requirements;
(v) Disciplinary rules; and
(vi) Mandatory trading requirements.
(c) Access requirements. (1) Impartial access to markets and market services. A
security-based swap execution facility shall provide any eligible contract participant and any
independent software vendor with impartial access to its market(s) and market services,
including any indicative quote screens or any similar pricing data displays, provided that the
facility has:
(i) Criteria governing such access that are impartial, transparent, and applied in a fair and
non-discriminatory manner;
(ii) Procedures whereby eligible contract participants provide the security-based swap
execution facility with written or electronic confirmation of their status as eligible contract
participants, as defined by the Act and Commission rules thereunder, prior to obtaining access;
and
(iii) Comparable fee structures for eligible contract participants and independent software
vendors receiving comparable access to, or services from, the security-based swap execution
facility.
438
(2) Jurisdiction. Prior to granting any eligible contract participant access to its facilities,
a security-based swap execution facility shall require that the eligible contract participant consent
to its jurisdiction.
(3) Limitations on access. A security-based swap execution facility shall establish and
impartially enforce rules governing any decision to allow, deny, suspend, or permanently bar an
eligible contract participant’s access to the security-based swap execution facility, including
when a decision is made as part of a disciplinary or emergency action taken by the security-based
swap execution facility.
(d) Rule enforcement program. A security-based swap execution facility shall establish
and enforce trading, trade processing, and participation rules that will deter abuses and it shall
have the capacity to detect, investigate, and enforce those rules.
(1) Abusive trading practices prohibited. A security-based swap execution facility shall
prohibit abusive trading practices on its markets by members. A security-based swap execution
facility that permits intermediation shall prohibit customer-related abuses including, but not
limited to, trading ahead of customer orders, trading against customer orders, accommodation
trading, and improper cross trading. Specific trading practices that shall be prohibited include
front-running, wash trading, pre-arranged trading (except for block trades or other types of
transactions approved by or certified to the Commission pursuant § 242.806 or 242.807,
respectively), fraudulent trading, money passes, and any other trading practices that a securitybased swap execution facility deems to be abusive. A security-based swap execution facility
shall also prohibit any other manipulative or disruptive trading practices prohibited by the Act or
by the Commission pursuant to Commission regulation.
(2) Capacity to detect and investigate rule violations. A security-based swap execution
439
facility shall have arrangements and resources for effective enforcement of its rules. Such
arrangements shall include the authority to collect information and documents on both a routine
and non-routine basis, including the authority to examine books and records kept by the securitybased swap execution facility’s members and by persons under investigation. A security-based
swap execution facility’s arrangements and resources shall also facilitate the direct supervision
of the market and the analysis of data collected to determine whether a rule violation has
occurred.
(3) Compliance staff and resources. A security-based swap execution facility shall
establish and maintain sufficient compliance staff and resources to ensure that it can conduct
effective audit trail reviews, trade practice surveillance, market surveillance, and real-time
market monitoring. The security-based swap execution facility’s compliance staff shall also be
sufficient to address unusual market or trading events as they arise, and to conduct and complete
investigations in a timely manner, as set forth in paragraph (d)(6) of this section.
(4) Automated trade surveillance system. A security-based swap execution facility shall
maintain an automated trade surveillance system capable of detecting potential trade practice
violations. The automated trade surveillance system shall load and process daily orders and
trades no later than 24 hours after the completion of the trading day. The automated trade
surveillance system shall have the capability to detect and flag specific trade execution patterns
and trade anomalies; compute, retain, and compare trading statistics; reconstruct the sequence of
market activity; perform market analyses; and support system users to perform in-depth analyses
and ad hoc queries of trade-related data.
(5) Real-time market monitoring. A security-based swap execution facility shall conduct
real-time market monitoring of all trading activity on its system(s) or platform(s) to identify any
440
market or system anomalies. A security-based swap execution facility shall have the authority to
adjust trade prices or cancel trades when necessary to mitigate market disrupting events caused
by malfunctions in its system(s) or platform(s) or errors in orders submitted by members. Any
trade price adjustments or trade cancellations shall be transparent to the market and subject to
standards that are clear, fair, and publicly available.
(6) Investigations and investigation reports. (i) Procedures. A security-based swap
execution facility shall establish and maintain procedures that require its compliance staff to
conduct investigations of possible rule violations. An investigation shall be commenced upon
the receipt of a request from Commission staff or upon the discovery or receipt of information by
the security-based swap execution facility that indicates a reasonable basis for finding that a
violation may have occurred or will occur.
(ii) Timeliness. Each compliance staff investigation shall be completed in a timely
manner. Absent mitigating factors, a timely manner is no later than 12 months after the date that
an investigation is opened. Mitigating factors that may reasonably justify an investigation taking
longer than 12 months to complete include the complexity of the investigation, the number of
firms or individuals involved as potential wrongdoers, the number of potential violations to be
investigated, and the volume of documents and data to be examined and analyzed by compliance
staff.
(iii) Investigation reports when a reasonable basis exists for finding a violation.
Compliance staff shall submit a written investigation report for disciplinary action in every
instance in which compliance staff determines from surveillance or from an investigation that a
reasonable basis exists for finding a rule violation. The investigation report shall include the
reason the investigation was initiated; a summary of the complaint, if any; the relevant facts;
441
compliance staff’s analysis and conclusions; and a recommendation as to whether disciplinary
action should be pursued.
(iv) Investigation reports when no reasonable basis exists for finding a violation. If after
conducting an investigation, compliance staff determines that no reasonable basis exists for
finding a rule violation, it shall prepare a written report including the reason the investigation
was initiated; a summary of the complaint, if any; the relevant facts; and compliance staff’s
analysis and conclusions.
(v) Warning letters. The rules of a security-based swap execution facility may authorize
its compliance staff to issue a warning letter to a person or entity under investigation or to
recommend that a disciplinary panel take such an action. No more than one warning letter may
be issued to the same person or entity found to have committed the same rule violation within a
rolling 12-month period.
(e) Regulatory services provided by a third party. (1) Use of regulatory service provider
permitted. A security-based swap execution facility may choose to contract with a registered
futures association (under section 17 of the Commodity Exchange Act), a national securities
exchange, a national securities association, or another security-based swap execution facility
(each a “regulatory service provider”), for the provision of services to assist in complying with
the Act and Commission rules thereunder, as approved by the Commission. A security-based
swap execution facility that chooses to contract with a regulatory service provider shall ensure
that such provider has the capacity and resources necessary to provide timely and effective
regulatory services, including adequate staff and automated surveillance systems. A securitybased swap execution facility shall at all times remain responsible for the performance of any
regulatory services received, for compliance with the security-based swap execution facility’s
442
obligations under the Act and Commission rules thereunder, and for the regulatory service
provider’s performance on its behalf.
(2) Duty to supervise regulatory service provider. A security-based swap execution
facility that elects to use the service of a regulatory service provider shall retain sufficient
compliance staff to supervise the quality and effectiveness of the regulatory services provided on
its behalf. Compliance staff of the security-based swap execution facility shall hold regular
meetings with the regulatory service provider to discuss ongoing investigations, trading patterns,
market participants, and any other matters of regulatory concern. A security-based swap
execution facility shall also conduct periodic reviews of the adequacy and effectiveness of
services provided on its behalf. Such reviews shall be documented carefully and made available
to the Commission upon request.
(3) Regulatory decisions required from the security-based swap execution facility. A
security-based swap execution facility that elects to use the service of a regulatory service
provider shall retain exclusive authority in all substantive decisions made by its regulatory
service provider, including, but not limited to, decisions involving the cancellation of trades, the
issuance of disciplinary charges against members, and denials of access to the trading platform
for disciplinary reasons. A security-based swap execution facility shall document any instances
where its actions differ from those recommended by its regulatory service provider, including the
reasons for the course of action recommended by the regulatory service provider and the reasons
why the security-based swap execution facility chose a different course of action.
(f) Audit trail. A security-based swap execution facility shall establish procedures to
capture and retain information that may be used in establishing whether rule violations have
occurred.
443
(1) Audit trail required. A security-based swap execution facility shall capture and retain
all audit trail data necessary to detect, investigate, and prevent customer and market abuses.
Such data shall be sufficient to reconstruct all indications of interest, requests for quotes, orders,
and trades within a reasonable period of time and to provide evidence of any violations of the
rules of the security-based swap execution facility. An acceptable audit trail shall also permit the
security-based swap execution facility to track a customer order from the time of receipt through
execution on the security-based swap execution facility.
(2) Elements of an acceptable audit trail program. (i) Original source documents. A
security-based swap execution facility’s audit trail shall include original source documents.
Original source documents include unalterable, sequentially-identified records on which trade
execution information is originally recorded, whether recorded manually or electronically.
Records for customer orders (whether filled, unfilled, or cancelled, each of which shall be
retained or electronically captured) shall reflect the terms of the order, an account identifier that
relates back to the account(s) owner(s), the time of order entry, and the time of trade execution.
A security-based swap execution facility shall require that all orders, indications of interest, and
requests for quotes be immediately captured in the audit trail.
(ii) Transaction history database. A security-based swap execution facility’s audit trail
program shall include an electronic transaction history database. An adequate transaction history
database shall include a history of all indications of interest, requests for quotes, orders, and
trades entered into a security-based swap execution facility’s trading system or platform,
including all order modifications and cancellations. An adequate transaction history database
shall also include:
(A) All data that are input into the trade entry or matching system for the transaction to
444
match and clear;
(B) The customer type indicator code; and
(C) Timing and sequencing data adequate to reconstruct trading.
(iii) Electronic analysis capability. A security-based swap execution facility’s audit trail
program shall include electronic analysis capability with respect to all audit trail data in the
transaction history database. Such electronic analysis capability shall ensure that the securitybased swap execution facility has the ability to reconstruct indications of interest, requests for
quotes, orders, and trades, and identify possible trading violations with respect to both customer
and market abuse.
(iv) Safe-storage capability. A security-based swap execution facility’s audit trail
program shall include the capability to safely store all audit trail data retained in its transaction
history database. Such safe-storage capability shall include the capability to store all data in the
database in a manner that protects it from unauthorized alteration, as well as from accidental
erasure or other loss. Data shall be retained in accordance with the recordkeeping requirements
of Core Principle 9 and § 242.826.
(3) Enforcement of audit trail requirements. (i) Annual audit trail and recordkeeping
reviews. A security-based swap execution facility shall enforce its audit trail and recordkeeping
requirements through at least annual reviews of all members and persons and firms subject to the
security-based swap execution facility’s recordkeeping rules to verify their compliance with the
security-based swap execution facility’s audit trail and recordkeeping requirements. Such
reviews shall include, but are not limited to, reviews of randomly selected samples of front-end
audit trail data for order routing systems; a review of the process by which user identifications
are assigned and user identification records are maintained; a review of usage patterns associated
445
with user identifications to monitor for violations of user identification rules; and reviews of
account numbers and customer type indicator codes in trade records to test for accuracy and
improper use.
(ii) Enforcement program required. A security-based swap execution facility shall
establish a program for effective enforcement of its audit trail and recordkeeping requirements.
An effective program shall identify members, persons, and firms subject to the security-based
swap execution facility’s recordkeeping rules that have failed to maintain high levels of
compliance with such requirements, and impose meaningful sanctions when deficiencies are
found. Sanctions shall be sufficient to deter recidivist behavior. No more than one warning
letter shall be issued to the same person or entity found to have committed the same violation of
audit trail or recordkeeping requirements within a rolling 12-month period.
(g) Disciplinary procedures and sanctions. A security-based swap execution facility
shall establish trading, trade processing, and participation rules that will deter abuses and have
the capacity to enforce such rules through prompt and effective disciplinary action, including
suspension or expulsion of members that violate the rules of the security-based swap execution
facility.
(1) Enforcement staff. (i) A security-based swap execution facility shall establish and
maintain sufficient enforcement staff and resources to effectively and promptly prosecute
possible rule violations within the disciplinary jurisdiction of the security-based swap execution
facility.
(ii) The enforcement staff of a security-based swap execution facility shall not include
members or other persons whose interests conflict with their enforcement duties.
(iii) A member of the enforcement staff shall not operate under the direction or control of
446
any person or persons with trading privileges at the security-based swap execution facility.
(iv) The enforcement staff of a security-based swap execution facility may operate as part
of the security-based swap execution facility’s compliance department.
(2) Disciplinary panels. A security-based swap execution facility shall establish one or
more disciplinary panels that are authorized to fulfill their obligations under the rules of this
section. Disciplinary panels shall meet the composition requirements of § 242.834(d), and shall
not include any members of the security-based swap execution facility’s compliance staff or any
person involved in adjudicating any other stage of the same proceeding.
(3) Notice of charges. If compliance staff authorized by a security-based swap execution
facility or disciplinary panel thereof determines that a reasonable basis exists for finding a
violation and adjudication is warranted, it shall direct that the person or entity alleged to have
committed the violation be served with a notice of charges. A notice of charges shall adequately
state the acts, conduct, or practices in which the respondent is alleged to have engaged; state the
rule or rules alleged to have been violated (or about to be violated); advise the respondent that it
is entitled, upon request, to a hearing on the charges; and prescribe the period within which a
hearing on the charges may be requested. If the rules of the security-based swap execution
facility so provide, a notice may also advise:
(i) That failure to request a hearing within the period prescribed in the notice, except for
good cause, may be deemed a waiver of the right to a hearing; and
(ii) That failure to answer or to deny expressly a charge may be deemed to be an
admission of such charge.
(4) Right to representation. Upon being served with a notice of charges, a respondent
shall have the right to be represented by legal counsel or any other representative of its choosing
447
in all succeeding stages of the disciplinary process, except by any member of the security-based
swap execution facility’s governing board or disciplinary panel, any employee of the securitybased swap execution facility, or any person substantially related to the underlying
investigations, such as a material witness or respondent.
(5) Answer to charges. A respondent shall be given a reasonable period of time to file an
answer to a notice of charges. The rules of a security-based swap execution facility governing
the requirements and timeliness of a respondent’s answer to a notice of charges shall be fair,
equitable, and publicly available.
(6) Admission or failure to deny charges. The rules of a security-based swap execution
facility may provide that, if a respondent admits or fails to deny any of the charges, a disciplinary
panel may find that the violations alleged in the notice of charges for which the respondent
admitted or failed to deny any of the charges have been committed. If the security-based swap
execution facility’s rules so provide, then:
(i) The disciplinary panel may impose a sanction for each violation found to have been
committed;
(ii) The disciplinary panel shall promptly notify the respondent in writing of any sanction
to be imposed and shall advise the respondent that the respondent may request a hearing on such
sanction within the period of time, which shall be stated in the notice; and
(iii) The rules of a security-based swap execution facility may provide that, if a
respondent fails to request a hearing within the period of time stated in the notice, the respondent
will be deemed to have accepted the sanction.
(7) Denial of charges and right to hearing. Where a respondent has requested a hearing
on a charge that is denied, or on a sanction set by the disciplinary panel, the respondent shall be
448
given an opportunity for a hearing in accordance with the rules of the security-based swap
execution facility.
(8) Settlement offers. (i) The rules of a security-based swap execution facility may permit
a respondent to submit a written offer of settlement at any time after an investigation report is
completed. The disciplinary panel presiding over the matter may accept the offer of settlement,
but may not alter the terms of a settlement offer unless the respondent agrees.
(ii) The rules of a security-based swap execution facility may provide that, in its
discretion, a disciplinary panel may permit the respondent to accept a sanction without either
admitting or denying the rule violations upon which the sanction is based.
(iii) If an offer of settlement is accepted, the panel accepting the offer shall issue a written
decision specifying the rule violations it has reason to believe were committed, including the
basis or reasons for the panel’s conclusions, and any sanction to be imposed, which shall include
full customer restitution where customer harm is demonstrated, except where the amount of
restitution or to whom it should be provided cannot be reasonably determined. If an offer of
settlement is accepted without the agreement of the enforcement staff, the decision shall
adequately support the disciplinary panel’s acceptance of the settlement. Where applicable, the
decision shall also include a statement that the respondent has accepted the sanctions imposed
without either admitting or denying the rule violations.
(iv) The respondent may withdraw its offer of settlement at any time before final
acceptance by a disciplinary panel. If an offer is withdrawn after submission, or is rejected by a
disciplinary panel, the respondent shall not be deemed to have made any admissions by reason of
the offer of settlement and shall not be otherwise prejudiced by having submitted the offer of
settlement.
449
(9) Hearings. A security-based swap execution facility shall adopt rules that provide for
the following minimum requirements for any hearing:
(i) The hearing shall be fair, shall be conducted before members of the disciplinary panel,
and shall be promptly convened after reasonable notice to the respondent. A security-based
swap execution facility need not apply the formal rules of evidence for a hearing; nevertheless,
the procedures for the hearing may not be so informal as to deny a fair hearing;
(ii) No member of the disciplinary panel for the hearing may have a financial, personal,
or other direct interest in the matter under consideration;
(iii) In advance of the hearing, the respondent shall be entitled to examine all books,
documents, or other evidence in the possession or under the control of the security-based swap
execution facility. The security-based swap execution facility may withhold documents that are
privileged or constitute attorney work product; were prepared by an employee of the securitybased swap execution facility but will not be offered in evidence in the disciplinary proceedings;
may disclose a technique or guideline used in examinations, investigations, or enforcement
proceedings; or disclose the identity of a confidential source;
(iv) The security-based swap execution facility’s enforcement and compliance staffs shall
be parties to the hearing, and the enforcement staff shall present their case on those charges and
sanctions that are the subject of the hearing;
(v) The respondent shall be entitled to appear personally at the hearing, to cross-examine
any persons appearing as witnesses at the hearing, to call witnesses, and to present such evidence
as may be relevant to the charges;
(vi) The security-based swap execution facility shall require persons within its
jurisdiction who are called as witnesses to participate in the hearing and produce evidence. The
450
security-based swap execution facility shall make reasonable efforts to secure the presence of all
other persons called as witnesses whose testimony would be relevant. The rules of a securitybased swap execution facility may provide that a sanction may be summarily imposed upon any
person within its jurisdiction whose actions impede the progress of a hearing; and
(vii) If the respondent has requested a hearing, a copy of the hearing shall be made and
shall become a part of the record of the proceeding. The record shall not be required to be
transcribed unless:
(A) The transcript is requested by Commission staff or the respondent;
(B) The decision is appealed pursuant to the rules of the security-based swap execution
facility; or
(C) The decision is reviewed by the Commission pursuant § 201.442. In all other
instances, a summary record of a hearing is permitted.
(10) Decisions. Promptly following a hearing conducted in accordance with the rules of
the security-based swap execution facility, the disciplinary panel shall render a written decision
based upon the weight of the evidence contained in the record of the proceeding and shall
provide a copy to the respondent. The decision shall include:
(i) The notice of charges or a summary of the charges;
(ii) The answer, if any, or a summary of the answer;
(iii) A summary of the evidence produced at the hearing or, where appropriate,
incorporation by reference of the investigation report;
(iv) A statement of findings and conclusions with respect to each charge and a complete
explanation of the evidentiary and other basis for such findings and conclusions with respect to
each charge;
451
(v) An indication of each specific rule that the respondent was found to have violated;
and
(vi) A declaration of all sanctions imposed against the respondent, including the basis for
such sanctions and the effective date of such sanctions.
(11) Emergency disciplinary actions. (i) A security-based swap execution facility may
impose a sanction, including suspension, or take other summary action against a person or entity
subject to its jurisdiction upon a reasonable belief that such immediate action is necessary to
protect the best interest of the market place.
(ii) Any emergency disciplinary action shall be taken in accordance with a security-based
swap execution facility’s procedures that provide for the following:
(A) If practicable, a respondent should be served with a notice before the action is taken,
or otherwise at the earliest possible opportunity. The notice shall state the action, briefly state
the reasons for the action, and state the effective time and date, and the duration of the action.
(B) The respondent shall have the right to be represented by legal counsel or any other
representative of its choosing in all proceedings subsequent to the emergency action taken. The
respondent shall be given the opportunity for a hearing as soon as reasonably practicable and the
hearing shall be conducted before the disciplinary panel pursuant to the rules of the securitybased swap execution facility.
(C) Promptly following the hearing, the security-based swap execution facility shall
render a written decision based upon the weight of the evidence contained in the record of the
proceeding and shall provide a copy to the respondent. The decision shall include a description
of the summary action taken; the reasons for the summary action; a summary of the evidence
produced at the hearing; a statement of findings and conclusions; a determination that the
452
summary action should be affirmed, modified, or reversed; and a declaration of any action to be
taken pursuant to the determination, and the effective date and duration of such action.
(12) Right to appeal. The rules of a security-based swap execution facility may permit
the parties to a proceeding to appeal promptly an adverse decision of a disciplinary panel in all or
in certain classes of cases. Such rules may require a party’s notice of appeal to be in writing and
to specify the findings, conclusions, or sanctions to which objection are taken. If the rules of a
security-based swap execution facility permit appeals, then both the respondent and the
enforcement staff shall have the opportunity to appeal and:
(i) The security-based swap execution facility shall establish an appellate panel that is
authorized to hear appeals. The rules of the security-based swap execution facility may provide
that the appellate panel may, on its own initiative, order review of a decision by a disciplinary
panel within a reasonable period of time after the decision has been rendered;
(ii) The composition of the appellate panel shall be consistent with § 242.834(d) and shall
not include any members of the security-based swap execution facility’s compliance staff or any
person involved in adjudicating any other stage of the same proceeding. The rules of a securitybased swap execution facility shall provide for the appeal proceeding to be conducted before all
of the members of the appellate panel or a panel thereof;
(iii) Except for good cause shown, the appeal or review shall be conducted solely on the
record before the disciplinary panel, the written exceptions filed by the parties, and the oral or
written arguments of the parties; and
(iv) Promptly following the appeal or review proceeding, the appellate panel shall issue a
written decision and shall provide a copy to the respondent. The decision issued by the appellate
panel shall adhere to all the requirements of paragraph (g)(10) of this section to the extent that a
453
different conclusion is reached from that issued by the disciplinary panel.
(13) Disciplinary sanctions. (i) In general. All disciplinary sanctions imposed by a
security-based swap execution facility or its disciplinary panels shall be commensurate with the
violations committed and shall be clearly sufficient to deter recidivism or similar violations by
other members. All disciplinary sanctions, including sanctions imposed pursuant to an accepted
settlement offer, shall take into account the respondent’s disciplinary history. In the event of
demonstrated customer harm, any disciplinary sanction shall also include full customer
restitution, except where the amount of restitution or to whom it should be provided cannot be
reasonably determined.
(ii) Summary fines for violations of rules regarding timely submission of records. A
security-based swap execution facility may adopt a summary fine schedule for violations of rules
relating to the failure to timely submit accurate records required for clearing or verifying each
day’s transactions. A security-based swap execution facility may permit its compliance staff, or
a designated panel of security-based swap execution facility officials, to summarily impose
minor sanctions against persons within the security-based swap execution facility’s jurisdiction
for violating such rules. A security-based swap execution facility’s summary fine schedule may
allow for warning letters to be issued for first-time violations or violators. If adopted, a summary
fine schedule shall provide for progressively larger fines for recurring violations.
(h) Activities of security-based swap execution facility’s employees, governing board
members, committee members, and consultants. (1) Definitions. The following definitions shall
apply only in this paragraph (h) of this section:
(i) Covered interest, with respect to a security-based swap execution facility, means:
(A) A security-based swap that trades on the security-based swap execution facility;
454
(B) A security of an issuer that has issued a security that underlies a security-based swap
that is listed on that facility; or
(C) A derivative based on a security that falls within paragraph (h)(1)(i)(B) of this
section.
(ii) Pooled investment vehicle means an investment company registered under the
Investment Company Act of 1940 in which no covered interest constitutes more than ten percent
of the investment company’s assets.
(2) A security-based swap execution facility must maintain in effect rules which have
been submitted to the Commission pursuant to § 242.806 or 242.807 that, at a minimum, prohibit
an employee of the security-based swap execution facility from:
(i) Trading, directly or indirectly, any covered interest; and
(ii) Disclosing to any other person any material, non-public information which such
employee obtains as a result of their employment at the security-based swap execution facility,
where such employee has or should have a reasonable expectation that the information disclosed
may assist another person in trading any covered interest; provided, however, that such rules
shall not prohibit disclosures made in the course of an employee’s duties, or disclosures made to
another security-based swap execution facility, court of competent jurisdiction, or representative
of any agency or department of the federal or state government acting in their official capacity.
(3) A security-based swap execution facility may adopt rules, which must be submitted to
the Commission pursuant to § 242.806 or 242.807, which set forth circumstances under which
exemptions from the trading prohibition contained in paragraph (h)(2)(i) of this section may be
granted; such exemptions are to be administered by the security-based swap execution facility on
a case-by-case basis. Specifically, such circumstances may include:
455
(i) Participation by an employee in a pooled investment vehicle where the employee has
no direct or indirect control with respect to transactions executed for or on behalf of such
vehicle;
(ii) Trading by an employee in a derivative based on a pooled investment vehicle that
falls within paragraph (h)(3)(i);
(iii) Trading by an employee in a derivative based on an index in which no covered
interest constitutes more than ten percent of the index; and
(iv) Trading by an employee under circumstances enumerated by the security-based swap
execution facility in rules which the security-based swap execution facility determines are not
contrary to applicable law, the public interest, or just and equitable principles of trade.
(4) Prohibited conduct. (i) No employee, governing board member, committee member,
or consultant of a security-based swap execution facility shall:
(A) Trade for such person’s own account, or for or on behalf of any other account, in any
covered interest on the basis of any material, non-public information obtained through special
access related to the performance of such person’s official duties as an employee, governing
board member, committee member, or consultant; or
(B) Disclose for any purpose inconsistent with the performance of such person’s official
duties as an employee, governing board member, committee member, or consultant any material,
non-public information obtained through special access related to the performance of such
duties.
(ii) No person shall trade for such person’s own account, or for or on behalf of any other
account, in any covered interest on the basis of any material, non-public information that such
person knows was obtained in violation of paragraph (h)(4) of this section from an employee,
456
governing board member, committee member, or consultant.
(i) Service on security-based swap execution facility governing boards or committees by
persons with disciplinary histories. (1) A security-based swap execution facility shall maintain
in effect rules which have been submitted to the Commission pursuant to § 242.806 or 242.807
that render a person ineligible to serve on its disciplinary committees, arbitration panels,
oversight panels, or governing board who:
(i) Was found within the prior three years by a final decision of a security-based swap
execution facility, a self-regulatory organization, an administrative law judge, a court of
competent jurisdiction, or the Commission to have committed a disciplinary offense;
(ii) Entered into a settlement agreement with a security-based swap execution facility, a
court of competent jurisdiction, or the Commission within the prior three years in which any of
the findings or, in the absence of such findings, any of the acts charged included a disciplinary
offense;
(iii) Currently is suspended from trading on any security-based swap execution facility, is
suspended or expelled from membership with a self-regulatory organization, is serving any
sentence of probation, or owes any portion of a fine imposed pursuant to:
(A) A finding by a final decision of a security-based swap execution facility, a selfregulatory organization, an administrative law judge, a court of competent jurisdiction, or the
Commission that such person committed a disciplinary offense; or
(B) A settlement agreement with a security-based swap execution facility, a court of
competent jurisdiction, or the Commission in which any of the findings or, in the absence of such
findings, any of the acts charged included a disciplinary offense;
(iv) Currently is subject to an agreement with the Commission, a security-based swap
457
execution facility, or a self-regulatory organization not to apply for registration with the
Commission or membership in any self-regulatory organization;
(v) Currently is subject to or has had imposed on him or her within the prior three years
a Commission registration revocation or suspension in any capacity for any reason, or has been
convicted within the prior three years of any felony; or
(vi) Currently is subject to a denial, suspension, or disqualification from serving on a
disciplinary committee, arbitration panel, or governing board of any security-based swap
execution facility or self-regulatory organization.
(2) No person may serve on a disciplinary committee, arbitration panel, oversight panel
or governing board of a security-based swap execution facility if such person is subject to any of
the conditions listed in paragraphs (i)(1)(i) to (i)(1)(vi) of this section.
(3) A security-based swap execution facility shall submit to the Commission a schedule
listing all those rule violations which constitute disciplinary offenses and, to the extent necessary
to reflect revisions, shall submit an amended schedule within 30 days of the end of each calendar
year. A security-based swap execution facility shall maintain and keep current the schedule
required by this section, and post the schedule on the security-based swap execution facility’s
website so that it is in a public place designed to provide notice to members and otherwise ensure
its availability to the general public.
(4) A security-based swap execution facility shall submit to the Commission within 30
days of the end of each calendar year a certified list of any persons who have been removed from
its disciplinary committees, arbitration panels, oversight panels, or governing board pursuant to
the requirements of this section during the prior year.
(5) Whenever a security-based swap execution facility finds by final decision that a
458
person has committed a disciplinary offense and such finding makes such person ineligible to
serve on that security-based swap execution facility’s disciplinary committees, arbitration panels,
oversight panels, or governing board, the security-based swap execution facility shall inform the
Commission of that finding and the length of the ineligibility in a form and manner specified by
the Commission.
(6) For purposes of this paragraph:
(i) Arbitration panel means any person or panel empowered by a security-based swap
execution facility to arbitrate disputes involving the security-based swap execution facility’s
members or their customers.
(ii) Disciplinary offense means:
(A) Any violation of the rules of a security-based swap execution facility, except a
violation resulting in fines aggregating to less than $5000 within a calendar year involving:
(1) Decorum or attire;
(2) Financial requirements; or
(3) Reporting or recordkeeping;
(B) Any rule violation which involves fraud, deceit, or conversion or results in a
suspension or expulsion;
(C) Any violation of the Act or the Commission’s rules thereunder; or
(D) Any failure to exercise supervisory responsibility when such failure is itself a
violation of either the rules of the security-based swap execution facility, the Act, or the
Commission’s rules thereunder.
(E) A disciplinary offense must arise out of a proceeding or action which is brought by a
security-based swap execution facility, the Commission, any federal or state agency, or other
459
governmental body.
(iii) Final decision means:
(A) A decision of a security-based swap execution facility which cannot be further
appealed within the security-based swap execution facility, is not subject to the stay of the
Commission or a court of competent jurisdiction, and has not been reversed by the
Commission or any court of competent jurisdiction; or
(B) Any decision by an administrative law judge, a court of competent jurisdiction, or
the Commission which has not been stayed or reversed.
(j) Notification of final disciplinary action involving financial harm to a customer.
(1) Upon any final disciplinary action in which a security-based swap execution facility finds
that a member has committed a rule violation that involved a transaction for a customer, whether
executed or not, and that resulted in financial harm to the customer:
(i)(A) The security-based swap execution facility shall promptly provide written notice of
the disciplinary action to the member; and
(B) The security-based swap execution facility shall have established a rule pursuant to
§ 242.806 or 242.807 that requires a member that receives such a notice to promptly provide
written notice of the disciplinary action to the customer, as disclosed on the member’s books and
records.
(2) A written notice required by paragraph (j)(1) of this section must include the principal
facts of the disciplinary action and a statement that the security-based swap execution facility has
found that the member has committed a rule violation that involved a transaction for
the customer, whether executed or not, and that resulted in financial harm to the customer.
(3) Solely for purposes of paragraph (j) of this section:
460
(i) Customer means a person that utilizes an agent in connection with trading on a
security-based swap execution facility.
(ii) Final disciplinary action means any decision by or settlement with a security-based
swap execution facility in a disciplinary matter which cannot be further appealed at the securitybased swap execution facility, is not subject to the stay of the Commission or a court of
competent jurisdiction, and has not been reversed by the Commission or any court of competent
jurisdiction.
(k) Designation of agent for non-U.S. member. (1) A security-based swap execution
facility that admits a non-U.S. person as a member shall be deemed to be the agent of the nonU.S. member with respect to any security-based swaps executed by the non-U.S. member.
Service or delivery of any communication issued by or on behalf of the Commission to the
security-based swap execution facility shall constitute valid and effective service upon the nonU.S. member. The security-based swap execution facility which has been served with, or to
which there has been delivered, a communication issued by or on behalf of the Commission to a
non-U.S. member shall transmit the communication promptly and in a manner which is
reasonable under the circumstances, or in a manner specified by the Commission in the
communication, to the non-U.S. member.
(2) It shall be unlawful for a security-based swap execution facility to permit a non-U.S.
member to execute security-based swaps on the facility unless the security-based swap execution
facility prior thereto informs the non-U.S. member in writing of the requirements of this section.
(3) The requirements of paragraphs (1) and (2) of this section shall not apply if the nonU.S. member has duly executed and maintains in effect a written agency agreement in
compliance with this paragraph with a person domiciled in the United States and has provided a
461
copy of the agreement to the security-based swap execution facility prior to effecting any
transaction on the security-based swap execution facility. This agreement must authorize
the person domiciled in the United States to serve as the agent of the non-U.S. member for
purposes of accepting delivery and service of all communications issued by or on behalf of
the Commission to the non-U.S. member and must provide an address in the United States where
the agent will accept delivery and service of communications from the Commission. This
agreement must be filed with the Commission by the security-based swap execution facility prior
to permitting the non-U.S. member to effect any transactions in security-based swaps. Such
agreements shall be filed in a manner specified by the Commission.
(4) A non-U.S. member shall notify the Commission immediately if the written agency
agreement is terminated, revoked, or is otherwise no longer in effect. If the security-based swap
execution facility knows or should know that the agreement has expired, been terminated, or is
no longer in effect, the security-based swap execution facility shall notify the Commission
immediately.
§ 242.820 Core Principle 3—Security-based swaps not readily susceptible to
manipulation.
The security-based swap execution facility shall permit trading only in security-based
swaps that are not readily susceptible to manipulation.
§ 242.821 Core Principle 4—Monitoring of trading and trade processing.
(a) General. The security-based swap execution facility shall:
(1) Establish and enforce rules or terms and conditions defining, or specifications
detailing:
(i) Trading procedures to be used in entering and executing orders traded on or through
462
the facilities of the security-based swap execution facility; and
(ii) Procedures for trade processing of security-based swaps on or through the facilities of
the security-based swap execution facility; and
(2) Monitor trading in security-based swaps to prevent manipulation, price distortion, and
disruptions of the delivery or cash settlement process through surveillance, compliance, and
disciplinary practices and procedures, including methods for conducting real-time monitoring of
trading and comprehensive and accurate trade reconstructions.
(b) A security-based swap execution facility shall:
(1) Collect and evaluate data on its members’ market activity on an ongoing basis in
order to detect and prevent manipulation, price distortions, and, where possible, disruptions of
the physical-delivery or cash-settlement process;
(2) Monitor and evaluate general market data in order to detect and prevent manipulative
activity that would result in the failure of the market price to reflect the normal forces of supply
and demand;
(3) Demonstrate an effective program for conducting real-time monitoring of trading for
the purpose of detecting and resolving abnormalities. A security-based swap execution facility
shall employ automated alerts to detect abnormal price movements and unusual trading volumes
in real time and instances or threats of manipulation, price distortion, and disruptions on at least a
T+1 basis. The T+1 detection and analysis should incorporate any additional data that becomes
available on a T+1 basis, including the trade reconstruction data;
(4) Demonstrate the ability to comprehensively and accurately reconstruct daily trading
activity for the purpose of detecting instances or threats of manipulation, price distortion, and
disruptions; and
463
(5) Have rules in place that allow it to intervene to prevent or reduce market disruptions.
Once a threatened or actual disruption is detected, the security-based swap execution facility
shall take steps to prevent the market disruption or reduce its severity.
(c) For physical-delivery security-based swaps, the security-based swap execution facility
shall demonstrate that it:
(1) Monitors a security-based swap’s terms and conditions as they relate to the
underlying asset market; and
(2) Monitors the availability of the supply of the asset specified by the delivery
requirements of the security-based swap.
(d) Additional requirements for cash-settled security-based swaps. (1) For cash-settled
security-based swaps, the security-based swap execution facility shall demonstrate that it
monitors the pricing of the reference price used to determine cash flows or settlement.
(2) For cash-settled security-based swaps listed on the security-based swap execution
facility where the reference price is formulated and computed by the security-based swap
execution facility, the security-based swap execution facility shall demonstrate that it monitors
the continued appropriateness of its methodology for deriving that price and shall promptly
amend any methodologies that result, or are likely to result, in manipulation, price distortions, or
market disruptions, or impose new methodologies to resolve the threat of disruptions or
distortions.
(3) For cash-settled security-based swaps listed on the security-based swap execution
facility where the reference price relies on a third-party index or instrument, including an index
or instrument traded on another venue, the security-based swap execution facility shall
demonstrate that it monitors for pricing abnormalities in the index or instrument used to calculate
464
the reference price and shall conduct due diligence to ensure that the reference price is not
susceptible to manipulation.
(e) Ability to obtain information. (1) A security-based swap execution facility shall
demonstrate that it has access to sufficient information to assess whether trading in securitybased swaps listed on its market, in the index or instrument used as a reference price, or in the
underlying asset for its listed security-based swaps is being used to affect prices on its market.
The security-based swap execution facility shall demonstrate that it can obtain position and
trading information directly from members that conduct substantial trading on its facility or
through an information-sharing agreement with other venues or a third-party regulatory service
provider. If the position and trading information is not available directly from its members but is
available through information-sharing agreements with other trading venues or a third-party
regulatory service provider, the security-based swap execution facility should cooperate in such
information-sharing agreements.
(2) A security-based swap execution facility shall have rules that require its members to
keep records of their trading, including records of their activity in the underlying asset, and
related derivatives markets, and make such records available, upon request, to the security-based
swap execution facility or, if applicable, to its regulatory service provider and the Commission.
The security-based swap execution facility may limit the application of this requirement to only
those members that conduct substantial trading on its facility.
(f) Risk controls for trading. A security-based swap execution facility shall establish and
maintain risk control mechanisms to prevent and reduce the potential risk of market disruptions,
including, but not limited to, market restrictions that pause or halt trading under market
conditions prescribed by the security-based swap execution facility. Such risk control
465
mechanisms shall be designed to avoid market disruptions without unduly interfering with that
market’s price discovery function. The security-based swap execution facility may choose from
among controls that include: pre-trade limits on order size, price collars or bands around the
current price, message throttles, daily price limits, and intraday position limits related to financial
risk to the clearing member, or design other types of controls, as well as clear error-trade and
order-cancellation policies. Within the specific array of controls that are selected, the securitybased swap execution facility shall set the parameters for those controls, so that the specific
parameters are reasonably likely to serve the purpose of preventing market disruptions and price
distortions.
(g) Trade reconstruction. A security-based swap execution facility shall have the ability
to comprehensively and accurately reconstruct all trading on its facility. All audit-trail data and
reconstructions shall be made available to the Commission in a form, manner, and time that is
acceptable to the Commission.
(h) Regulatory service provider. A security-based swap execution facility shall comply
with the rules in this section through a dedicated regulatory department or by contracting with a
regulatory service provider pursuant to § 242.819(e).
§ 242.822 Core Principle 5—Ability to obtain information.
(a) General. The security-based swap execution facility shall:
(1) Establish and enforce rules that will allow the facility to obtain any necessary
information to perform any of the functions described in section 3D of the Act;
(2) Provide the information to the Commission on request; and
(3) Have the capacity to carry out such international information-sharing agreements as
the Commission may require.
466
(b) Establish and enforce rules. A security-based swap execution facility shall establish
and enforce rules that will allow the security-based swap execution facility to have the ability
and authority to obtain sufficient information to allow it to fully perform its operational, risk
management, governance, and regulatory functions and any requirements under this section,
including the capacity to carry out international information-sharing agreements as the
Commission may require.
(c) Collection of information. A security-based swap execution facility shall have rules
that allow it to collect information on a routine basis, allow for the collection of non-routine data
from its members, and allow for its examination of books and records kept by members on its
facility.
(d) Provide information to the Commission. A security-based swap execution facility
shall provide information in its possession to the Commission upon request, in a form and
manner specified by the Commission.
(e) Information-sharing agreements. A security-based swap execution facility shall share
information with other regulatory organizations, data repositories, and third-party data reporting
services as required by the Commission or as otherwise necessary and appropriate to fulfill its
regulatory and reporting responsibilities. Appropriate information-sharing agreements can be
established with such entities, or the Commission can act in conjunction with the security-based
swap execution facility to carry out such information sharing.
§ 242.823 Core Principle 6—Financial integrity of transactions.
(a) General. The security-based swap execution facility shall establish and enforce rules
and procedures for ensuring the financial integrity of security-based swaps entered on or through
the facilities of the security-based swap execution facility, including the clearance and settlement
467
of security-based swaps pursuant to section 3C(a)(1) of the Act.
(b) Required clearing. Transactions executed on or through the security-based swap
execution facility that are required to be cleared under section 3C(a)(1) of the Act or are
voluntarily cleared by the counterparties shall be cleared through a registered clearing agency or
a clearing agency that has obtained an exemption from clearing agency registration to provide
central counterparty services for security based swaps.
(c) General financial integrity. A security-based swap execution facility shall provide for
the financial integrity of its transactions:
(1) By establishing minimum financial standards for its members, which shall, at a
minimum, require that each member qualify as an eligible contract participant;
(2) For transactions cleared by a registered clearing agency:
(i) By ensuring that the security-based swap execution facility has the capacity to route
transactions to the registered clearing agency in a manner acceptable to the clearing agency for
purposes of clearing; and
(ii) By coordinating with each registered clearing agency to which it submits transactions
for clearing, in the development of rules and procedures to facilitate prompt and efficient
transaction processing.
(d) Monitoring for financial soundness. A security-based swap execution facility shall
monitor its members to ensure that they continue to qualify as eligible contract participants.
§ 242.824 Core Principle 7—Emergency authority.
(a) General. The security-based swap execution facility shall adopt rules to provide for
the exercise of emergency authority, in consultation or cooperation with the Commission, as is
necessary and appropriate, including the authority to liquidate or transfer open positions in
468
any security-based swap or to suspend or curtail trading in a security-based swap.
(b) To comply with this core principle, a security-based swap execution facility shall
adopt rules that are reasonably designed to:
(1) Allow the security-based swap execution facility to intervene as necessary to maintain
markets with fair and orderly trading and to prevent or address manipulation or disruptive trading
practices, whether the need for intervention arises exclusively from the security-based swap
execution facility’s market or as part of a coordinated, cross-market intervention;
(2) Have the flexibility and independence to address market emergencies in an effective
and timely manner consistent with the nature of the emergency, as long as all such actions taken
by the security-based swap execution facility are made in good faith to protect the integrity of the
markets;
(3) Take market actions as may be directed by the Commission, including, in situations
where a security-based swap is traded on more than one platform, emergency action to liquidate
or transfer open interest as directed, or agreed to, by the Commission or the Commission’s staff.;
(4) Include procedures and guidelines for decision-making and implementation of
emergency intervention that avoid conflicts of interest;
(5) Include alternate lines of communication and approval procedures to address
emergencies associated with real-time events;
(6) Allow the security-based swap execution facility, to address perceived market threats,
to impose or modify position limits, impose or modify price limits, impose or modify intraday
market restrictions, impose special margin requirements, order the liquidation or transfer of open
positions in any contract, order the fixing of a settlement price, extend or shorten the expiration
date or the trading hours, suspend or curtail trading in any contract, transfer customer contracts
469
and the margin, or alter any contract’s settlement terms or conditions, or, if applicable, provide
for the carrying out of such actions through its agreements with its third-party provider of
clearing or regulatory services.
(c) A security-based swap execution facility shall promptly notify the Commission of its
exercise of emergency action, explaining its decision-making process, the reasons for using its
emergency authority, and how conflicts of interest were minimized, including the extent to
which the security-based swap execution facility considered the effect of its emergency action on
the underlying markets and on markets that are linked or referenced to the contracts traded on its
facility, including similar markets on other trading venues. Information on all regulatory actions
carried out pursuant to a security-based swap execution facility’s emergency authority shall be
included in a timely submission of a certified rule pursuant to § 242.807.
§ 242.825 Core Principle 8—Timely publication of trading information.
(a) In general. (1) The security-based swap execution facility shall make public timely
information on price, trading volume, and other trading data on security-based swaps to the
extent prescribed by the Commission.
(2) Capacity of security-based swap execution facility. The security-based swap
execution facility shall be required to have the capacity to electronically capture and transmit and
disseminate trade information with respect to transactions executed on or through the facility.
(b) A security-based swap execution facility shall report security-based swap transaction
data as required by Regulation SBSR.
(c) A security-based swap execution facility shall make available a “Daily Market Data
Report” containing the information required in paragraphs (c)(1) and (c)(2) of this section in a
manner and timeframe required by this section.
470
(1) Contents. The Daily Market Data Report of a security-based swap execution facility
for a business day shall contain the following information for each tenor of each security-based
swap traded on that security-based swap execution facility during that business day:
(i) The trade count (including block trades but excluding error trades, correcting trades,
and offsetting trades);
(ii) The total notional amount traded (including block trades but excluding error trades,
correcting trades, and offsetting trades);
(iii) The number of block trades;
(iv) The total notional amount of block trades;
(v) The opening and closing price;
(vi) The price that is used for settlement purposes, if different from the closing price; and
(vii) The lowest price of a sale or offer, whichever is lower, and the highest price of a sale
or bid, whichever is higher, that the security-based swap execution facility reasonably determines
accurately reflects market conditions. Bids and offers vacated or withdrawn shall not be used in
making this determination. A bid is vacated if followed by a higher bid or price and an offer is
vacated if followed by a lower offer or price.
(2) Additional information. A security-based swap execution facility must record the
following information with respect to security-based swaps on that reporting market:
(i) The method used by the security-based swap execution facility in determining nominal
prices and settlement prices; and
(ii) If discretion is used by the security-based swap execution facility in determining the
opening and/or closing ranges or the settlement prices, an explanation that certain discretion may
be employed by the security-based swap execution facility and a description of the manner in
471
which that discretion may be employed. Discretionary authority must be noted explicitly in each
case in which it is applied (for example, by use of an asterisk or footnote).
(3) Form of publication. A security-based swap execution facility shall publicly post the
Daily Market Data Report on its website:
(i) In a downloadable and machine-readable format using the most recent versions of the
associated XML schema and PDF renderer as published on the Commission’s website;
(ii) Without fees or other charges;
(iii) Without any encumbrances on access or usage restrictions; and
(iv) Without requiring a user to agree to any terms before being allowed to view or
download the Daily Market Data Report, such as by waiving any requirements of this paragraph
(c)(3). Any such waiver agreed to by a user shall be null and void.
(4) Timing of publication. A security-based swap execution facility shall publish the
Daily Market Data Report on its website no later than the security-based swap execution
facility’s commencement of trading on the next business day after the day to which the
information pertains.
(5) Duration. A security-based swap execution facility shall keep each Daily Market
Data Report available on its website in the same location as all other Daily Market Data Reports
for no less than one year after the date of first publication.
§ 242.826 Core Principle 9—Recordkeeping and reporting.
(a) In general. (1) A security-based swap execution facility shall:
(i) Maintain records of all activities relating to the business of the facility, including a
complete audit trail, in a form and manner acceptable to the Commission for a period of five
years; and
472
(ii) Report to the Commission, in a form and manner acceptable to the Commission, such
information as the Commission determines to be necessary or appropriate for the Commission to
perform the duties of the Commission under the Act.
(2) Requirements. The Commission shall adopt data collection and reporting
requirements for security-based swap execution facilities that are comparable to corresponding
requirements for clearing agencies and security-based swap data repositories.
(b) Required records. A security-based swap execution facility shall keep full, complete,
and systematic records, together with all pertinent data and memoranda, of all activities relating
to its business with respect to security-based swaps. Such records shall include, without
limitation, the audit trail information required under § 242.819(f) and all other records that a
security-based swap execution facility is required to create or obtain under Regulation SE.
(c) Duration of retention. (1) A security-based swap execution facility shall keep
records of any security-based swap from the date of execution until the termination, maturity,
expiration, transfer, assignment, or novation date of the transaction, and for a period of not less
than five years, the first two years in an easily accessible place, after such date.
(2) A security-based swap execution facility shall keep each record other than the records
described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section for a period of not less than five years, the first two
years in an easily accessible place, from the date on which the record was created.
(d) Record Retention. (1) In general. A security-based swap execution facility shall
retain all records in a form and manner that ensures the authenticity and reliability of such
records in accordance with the Act and the Commission’s rules thereunder.
(2) A security-based swap execution facility shall, upon request of any representative of
the Commission, promptly furnish to the representative legible, true, complete, and current
473
copies of any records required to be kept and preserved pursuant to this section.
(3) Electronic records. (i) An electronic record shall be retained in a form and manner
that allows for prompt production at the request of any representative of the Commission.
(ii) A security-based swap execution facility maintaining electronic records shall
establish appropriate systems and controls that ensure the authenticity and reliability
of electronic records, including, without limitation:
(A) Systems that maintain the security, signature, and data as necessary to ensure the
authenticity of the information contained in electronic records and to monitor compliance with
the Act and the Commission’s rules thereunder;
(B) Systems that ensure that the security-based swap execution facility is able to
produce electronic records in accordance with this section, and ensure the availability of
such electronic records in the event of an emergency or other disruption of the security-based
swap execution facility’s electronic record retention systems; and
(C) The creation and maintenance of an up-to-date inventory that identifies and describes
each system that maintains information necessary for accessing or producing electronic records.
(e) Record examination. All records required to be kept by a security-based swap
execution facility pursuant to this section are subject to examination by any representative of the
Commission pursuant to section 17(b) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78q).
(f) Records of non-U.S. members. A security-based swap execution facility shall keep a
record in permanent form, which shall show the true name, address, and principal occupation or
business of any non-U.S. member that executes transactions on the facility. Upon request, the
security-based swap execution facility shall provide to the Commission information regarding
the name of any person guaranteeing such transactions or exercising any control over the trading
474
of such non-U.S. member.
§ 242.827 Core Principle 10—Antitrust considerations.
Unless necessary or appropriate to achieve the purposes of the Act, the security-based
swap execution facility shall not:
(a) Adopt any rules or take any actions that result in any unreasonable restraint of trade;
or
(b) Impose any material anticompetitive burden on trading or clearing.
§ 242.828 Core Principle 11—Conflicts of interest.
(a) In general. The security-based swap execution facility shall:
(1) Establish and enforce rules to minimize conflicts of interest in its decision-making
process; and
(2) Establish a process for resolving the conflicts of interest.
(b) A security-based swap execution facility shall comply with the requirements of
§ 242.834.
§ 242.829 Core Principle 12—Financial resources.
(a)(1) In general. The security-based swap execution facility shall have adequate
financial, operational, and managerial resources to discharge each responsibility of the securitybased swap execution facility, as determined by the Commission.
(2) Determination of resource adequacy. The financial resources of a security-based
swap execution facility shall be considered to be adequate if the value of the financial resources:
(i) Enables the organization to meet its financial obligations to its members
notwithstanding a default by a member creating the largest financial exposure for that
organization in extreme but plausible market conditions; and
475
(ii) Exceeds the total amount that would enable the security-based swap execution facility
to cover the operating costs of the security-based swap execution facility for a one-year period,
as calculated on a rolling basis.
(b) General requirements. A security-based swap execution facility shall maintain
financial resources on an ongoing basis that are adequate to enable it to comply with the core
principles set forth in section 3D of the Act and any applicable Commission rules. Financial
resources shall be considered adequate if their value exceeds the total amount that would enable
the security-based swap execution facility to cover its projected operating costs necessary for the
security-based swap execution facility to comply with section 3D of the Act and applicable
Commission rules for a one-year period, as calculated on a rolling basis pursuant to paragraph (e)
of this section.
(c) Types of financial resources. Financial resources available to satisfy the requirements
of this section may include:
(1) The security-based swap execution facility’s own capital, meaning its assets minus its
liabilities calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United
States; and
(2) Any other financial resource deemed acceptable by the Commission.
(d) Liquidity of financial resources. The financial resources allocated by a security-based
swap execution facility to meet the ongoing requirements of paragraph (b) of this section shall
include unencumbered, liquid financial assets (i.e., cash and/or highly liquid securities) equal to
at least the greater of three months of projected operating costs, as calculated on a rolling basis,
or the projected costs needed to wind down the security-based swap execution facility’s
operations, in each case as determined under paragraph (e) of this section. If a security-based
476
swap execution facility lacks sufficient unencumbered, liquid financial assets to satisfy its
obligations under this section, the security-based swap execution facility may satisfy this
requirement by obtaining a committed line of credit or similar facility in an amount at least equal
to such deficiency.
(e) Computation of costs to meet financial resources requirement. (1) A security-based
swap execution facility shall, each fiscal quarter, make a reasonable calculation of its projected
operating costs and wind-down costs in order to determine its applicable obligations under this
section. The security-based swap execution facility shall have reasonable discretion in
determining the methodologies used to compute such amounts.
(i) A security-based swap execution facility’s calculation of its projected operating costs
shall be deemed reasonable if it includes all expenses necessary for the security-based swap
execution facility to comply with the core principles set forth in section 3D of the Act and any
applicable Commission rules, and if the calculation is based on the security-based swap
execution facility’s current level of business and business model, taking into account any
projected modification to its business model (e.g., the addition or subtraction of business lines or
operations or other changes), and any projected increase or decrease in its level of business over
the next 12 months. A security-based swap execution facility may exclude the following
expenses (“excludable expenses”) from its projected operating cost calculations:
(A) Costs attributable solely to sales, marketing, business development, product
development, or recruitment and any related travel, entertainment, event, or conference costs;
(B) Compensation and related taxes and benefits for personnel who are not necessary to
ensure that the security-based swap execution facility is able to comply with the core principles
set forth in section 3D of the Act and any applicable Commission rules;
477
(C) Costs for acquiring and defending patents and trademarks for security-based swap
execution facility products and related intellectual property;
(D) Magazine, newspaper, and online periodical subscription fees;
(E) Tax preparation and audit fees;
(F) The variable commissions that a voice-based security-based swap execution facility
may pay to its trading specialists, calculated as a percentage of transaction revenue generated by
the voice-based security-based swap execution facility; and
(G) Any non-cash costs, including depreciation and amortization.
(ii) Prorated expenses. A security-based swap execution facility’s calculation of its
projected operating costs shall be deemed reasonable if an expense is prorated and the securitybased swap execution facility:
(A) Maintains sufficient documentation that reasonably shows the extent to which an
expense is partially attributable to an excludable expense;
(B) Identifies any prorated expense in the financial reports that it submits to the
Commission pursuant to paragraph (g) of this section; and
(C) Sufficiently explains why it prorated any expense. Common allocation
methodologies that may be used include actual use, headcount, or square footage. A securitybased swap execution facility may provide documentation, such as copies of service agreements,
other legal documents, firm policies, audit statements, or allocation methodologies to support its
determination to prorate an expense.
(iii) Expenses allocated among affiliates. A security-based swap execution facility’s
calculation of its projected operating costs shall be deemed reasonable if it prorates any shared
expense that the security-based swap execution facility pays for, but only to the extent that such
478
shared expense is attributable to an affiliate and for which the security-based swap execution
facility is reimbursed. To prorate a shared expense, the security-based swap execution facility
shall:
(A) Maintain sufficient documentation that reasonably shows the extent to which the
shared expense is attributable to and paid for by the security-based swap execution facility and/or
affiliated entity. The security-based swap execution facility may provide documentation, such as
copies of service agreements, other legal documents, firm policies, audit statements, or allocation
methodologies, that reasonably shows how expenses are attributable to, and paid for by, the
security-based swap execution facility and/or its affiliated entities to support its determination to
prorate an expense;
(B) Identify any shared expense in the financial reports that it submits to the Commission
pursuant to paragraph (h) of this section; and
(C) Sufficiently explain why it prorated the shared expense.
(2) Notwithstanding any provision of paragraph (e)(1) of this section, the Commission
may review the methodologies and require changes as appropriate.
(f) Valuation of financial resources. No less than each fiscal quarter, a security-based
swap execution facility shall compute the current market value of each financial resource used to
meet its obligations under this section. Reductions in value to reflect market and credit risk
(“haircuts”) shall be applied as appropriate.
(g) Reporting to the Commission.
(1) Each fiscal quarter, or at any time upon Commission request, a security-based swap
execution facility shall provide a report to the Commission that includes:
(i) The amount of financial resources necessary to meet the requirements of this section,
479
computed in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (e) of this section, and the market
value of each available financial resource, computed in accordance with the requirements of
paragraph (f) of this section; and
(ii) Financial statements, including the balance sheet, income statement, and statement of
cash flows of the security-based swap execution facility.
(A) The financial statements shall be prepared in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles in the United States, prepared in English, and denominated in U.S. dollars.
(B) The financial statements of a security-based swap execution facility that is not
domiciled in the United States, and is not otherwise required to prepare financial statements in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, may satisfy the
requirement in paragraph (g)(1)(ii)(A) of this section if such financial statements are prepared in
accordance with either International Financial Reporting Standards issued by the International
Accounting Standards Board, or a comparable international standard as the Commission may
otherwise accept in its discretion.
(2) The calculations required by paragraph (g) of this section shall be made as of the last
business day of the security-based swap execution facility’s applicable fiscal quarter.
(3) With each report required under paragraph (g) of this section, the security-based swap
execution facility shall also provide the Commission with sufficient documentation explaining
the methodology used to compute its financial requirements under this section. Such
documentation shall:
(i) Allow the Commission to reliably determine, without additional requests for
information, that the security-based swap execution facility has made reasonable calculations
pursuant to paragraph (e) of this section; and
480
(ii) Include, at a minimum:
(A) A total list of all expenses, without any exclusion;
(B) All expenses and the corresponding amounts, if any, that the security-based swap
execution facility excluded or prorated when determining its operating costs, calculated on a
rolling basis, required under this section, and the basis for any determination to exclude or
prorate any such expenses;
(C) Documentation demonstrating the existence of any committed line of credit or similar
facility relied upon for the purpose of meeting the requirements of this section (e.g., copies of
agreements establishing or amending a credit facility or similar facility); and
(D) All costs that a security-based swap execution facility would incur to wind down its
operations, the projected amount of time for any such wind-down period, and the basis of its
determination for the estimation of its costs and timing.
(4) The reports and supporting documentation required by this section shall be filed not
later than 40 calendar days after the end of the security-based swap execution facility’s first three
fiscal quarters, and not later than 90 calendar days after the end of the security-based swap
execution facility’s fourth fiscal quarter, or at such later time as the Commission may permit, in
its discretion, upon request by the security-based swap execution facility.
(5) A security-based swap execution facility shall provide notice to the Commission no
later than 48 hours after it knows or reasonably should know that it no longer meets its
obligations under paragraph (b) and (d) of this section.
(6) A security-based swap execution facility shall provide the report and documentation
required by this section to the Commission electronically using the EDGAR system as an
Interactive Data File in accordance with § 232.405.
481
§ 242.830 Core Principle 13—System safeguards.
(a) In general. The security-based swap execution facility shall:
(1) Establish and maintain a program of risk analysis and oversight to identify and
minimize sources of operational risk, through the development of appropriate controls and
procedures, and automated systems, that:
(i) Are reliable and secure; and
(ii) Have adequate scalable capacity;
(2) Establish and maintain emergency procedures, backup facilities, and a plan for
disaster recovery that allow for:
(i) The timely recovery and resumption of operations; and
(ii) The fulfillment of the responsibilities and obligations of the security-based swap
execution facility; and
(3) Periodically conduct tests to verify that the backup resources of the security-based
swap execution facility are sufficient to ensure continued:
(i) Order processing and trade matching;
(ii) Price reporting;
(iii) Market surveillance; and
(iv) Maintenance of a comprehensive and accurate audit trail.
(b) Requirements. (1) A security-based swap execution facility’s program of risk
analysis and oversight with respect to its operations and automated systems shall address each of
the following categories of risk analysis and oversight:
(i) Enterprise risk management and governance. This category includes, but is not
limited to: Assessment, mitigation, and monitoring of security and technology risk; security and
482
technology capital planning and investment; governing board and management oversight of
technology and security; information technology audit and controls assessments; remediation of
deficiencies; and any other elements of enterprise risk management and governance included in
generally accepted best practices.
(ii) Information security. This category includes, but is not limited to, controls relating
to: Access to systems and data (including least privilege, separation of duties, account
monitoring, and control); user and device identification and authentication; security awareness
training; audit log maintenance, monitoring, and analysis; media protection; personnel security
and screening; automated system and communications protection (including network port
control, boundary defenses, and encryption); system and information integrity (including
malware defenses and software integrity monitoring); vulnerability management; penetration
testing; security incident response and management; and any other elements of information
security included in generally accepted best practices.
(iii) Business continuity-disaster recovery planning and resources. This category
includes, but is not limited to: Regular, periodic testing and review of business continuitydisaster recovery capabilities; the controls and capabilities described in paragraphs (b)(3) and
(b)(10) of this section; and any other elements of business continuity-disaster recovery planning
and resources included in generally accepted best practices.
(iv) Capacity and performance planning. This category includes, but is not limited to:
Controls for monitoring the security-based swap execution facility’s systems to ensure adequate
scalable capacity (including testing, monitoring, and analysis of current and projected future
capacity and performance, and of possible capacity degradation due to planned automated
system changes); and any other elements of capacity and performance planning included in
483
generally accepted best practices.
(v) Systems operations. This category includes, but is not limited to: System
maintenance; configuration management (including baseline configuration, configuration change
and patch management, least functionality, and inventory of authorized and unauthorized devices
and software); event and problem response and management; and any other elements of system
operations included in generally accepted best practices.
(vi) Systems development and quality assurance. This category includes, but is not
limited to: Requirements development; pre-production and regression testing; change
management procedures and approvals; outsourcing and vendor management; training in secure
coding practices; and any other elements of systems development and quality assurance included
in generally accepted best practices.
(vii) Physical security and environmental controls. This category includes, but is not
limited to: Physical access and monitoring; power, telecommunication, and environmental
controls; fire protection; and any other elements of physical security and environmental controls
included in generally accepted best practices.
(2) In addressing the categories of risk analysis and oversight required under paragraph
(1) of this section, a security-based swap execution facility shall follow generally accepted
standards and best practices with respect to the development, operation, reliability, security, and
capacity of automated systems.
(3) A security-based swap execution facility shall maintain a business continuity-disaster
recovery plan and business continuity-disaster recovery resources, emergency procedures, and
back-up facilities sufficient to enable timely recovery and resumption of its operations and
resumption of its ongoing fulfillment of its responsibilities and obligations as a security-based
484
swap execution facility following any disruption of its operations. Such responsibilities and
obligations include, without limitation: Order processing and trade matching; transmission of
matched orders to a registered clearing agency for clearing, where appropriate; price reporting;
market surveillance; and maintenance of a comprehensive audit trail. A security-based swap
execution facility’s business continuity-disaster recovery plan and resources generally should
enable resumption of trading and clearing of security-based swaps executed on or pursuant to the
rules of the security-based swap execution facility during the next business day following the
disruption. A security-based swap execution facility shall update its business continuity-disaster
recovery plan and emergency procedures at a frequency determined by an appropriate risk
analysis, but at a minimum no less frequently than annually.
(4) A security-based swap execution facility satisfies the requirement to be able to
resume its operations and resume its ongoing fulfillment of its responsibilities and obligations
during the next business day following any disruption of its operations by maintaining either:
(i) Infrastructure and personnel resources of its own that are sufficient to ensure timely
recovery and resumption of its operations and resumption of its ongoing fulfillment of its
responsibilities and obligations as a security-based swap execution facility following any
disruption of its operations; or
(ii) Contractual arrangements with other security-based swap execution facilities or
disaster recovery service providers, as appropriate, that are sufficient to ensure continued trading
and clearing of security-based swaps executed on the security-based swap execution facility, and
ongoing fulfillment of all of the security-based swap execution facility’s responsibilities and
obligations with respect to such security-based swaps, in the event that a disruption renders the
security-based swap execution facility temporarily or permanently unable to satisfy this
485
requirement on its own behalf.
(5) A security-based swap execution facility shall notify Commission staff promptly of
all:
(i) Electronic trading halts and material system malfunctions;
(ii) Cyber-security incidents or targeted threats that actually or potentially jeopardize
automated system operation, reliability, security, or capacity; and
(iii) Activations of the security-based swap execution facility’s business continuitydisaster recovery plan.
(6) A security-based swap execution facility shall provide Commission staff timely
advance notice of all material:
(i) Planned changes to automated systems that may impact the reliability, security, or
adequate scalable capacity of such systems; and
(ii) Planned changes to the security-based swap execution facility’s program of risk
analysis and oversight.
(7) As part of a security-based swap execution facility’s obligation to produce books and
records in accordance with Core Principle 9 and § 242.826, the security-based swap execution
facility shall provide to the Commission the following system-safeguards-related books and
records, promptly upon the request of any Commission representative:
(i) Current copies of its business continuity-disaster recovery plans and other emergency
procedures;
(ii) All assessments of its operational risks or system safeguards-related controls;
(iii) All reports concerning system safeguards testing and assessment required by this
chapter, whether performed by independent contractors or by employees of the security-based
486
swap execution facility; and
(iv) All other books and records requested by Commission staff in connection with
Commission oversight of system safeguards pursuant to the Act or Commission rules, or in
connection with Commission maintenance of a current profile of the security-based swap
execution facility’s automated systems.
(v) Nothing in paragraph (b)(7) of this section shall be interpreted as reducing or limiting
in any way a security-based swap execution facility’s obligation to comply with Core Principle 9
and § 242.826.
(8) A security-based swap execution facility shall conduct regular, periodic, objective
testing and review of its automated systems to ensure that they are reliable, secure, and have
adequate scalable capacity. A security-based swap execution facility shall also conduct regular,
periodic testing and review of its business continuity-disaster recovery capabilities. Such testing
and review shall include, without limitation, all of the types of testing set forth in paragraph
(b)(8) of this section.
(i) Definitions. As used in this paragraph (b)(8) of this section:
Controls means the safeguards or countermeasures employed by the security-based swap
execution facility to protect the reliability, security, or capacity of its automated systems or the
confidentiality, integrity, and availability of its data and information, and to enable the securitybased swap execution facility to fulfill its statutory and regulatory responsibilities.
Controls testing means assessment of the security-based swap execution facility’s
controls to determine whether such controls are implemented correctly, are operating as
intended, and are enabling the security-based swap execution facility to meet the requirements of
this section.
487
Enterprise technology risk assessment means a written assessment that includes, but is
not limited to, an analysis of threats and vulnerabilities in the context of mitigating controls. An
enterprise technology risk assessment identifies, estimates, and prioritizes risks to security-based
swap execution facility operations or assets, or to market participants, individuals, or other
entities, resulting from impairment of the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of data and
information or the reliability, security, or capacity of automated systems.
External penetration testing means attempts to penetrate the security-based swap
execution facility’s automated systems from outside the systems’ boundaries to identify and
exploit vulnerabilities. Methods of conducting external penetration testing include, but are not
limited to, methods for circumventing the security features of an automated system.
Internal penetration testing means attempts to penetrate the security-based swap
execution facility’s automated systems from inside the systems’ boundaries, to identify and
exploit vulnerabilities. Methods of conducting internal penetration testing include, but are not
limited to, methods for circumventing the security features of an automated system.
Security incident means a cybersecurity or physical security event that actually
jeopardizes or has a significant likelihood of jeopardizing automated system operation,
reliability, security, or capacity, or the availability, confidentiality or integrity of data.
Security incident response plan means a written plan documenting the security-based
swap execution facility’s policies, controls, procedures, and resources for identifying, responding
to, mitigating, and recovering from security incidents, and the roles and responsibilities of its
management, staff, and independent contractors in responding to security incidents. A security
incident response plan may be a separate document or a business continuity-disaster recovery
plan section or appendix dedicated to security incident response.
488
Security incident response plan testing means testing of a security-based swap execution
facility’s security incident response plan to determine the plan’s effectiveness, identify its
potential weaknesses or deficiencies, enable regular plan updating and improvement, and
maintain organizational preparedness and resiliency with respect to security incidents. Methods
of conducting security incident response plan testing may include, but are not limited to,
checklist completion, walk-through or table-top exercises, simulations, and comprehensive
exercises.
Vulnerability testing means testing of a security-based swap execution facility’s
automated systems to determine what information may be discoverable through a reconnaissance
analysis of those systems and what vulnerabilities may be present on those systems.
(ii) Vulnerability testing. A security-based swap execution facility shall conduct
vulnerability testing of a scope sufficient to satisfy the requirements set forth in paragraph
(b)(10) of this section.
(A) A security-based swap execution facility shall conduct such vulnerability testing at a
frequency determined by an appropriate risk analysis.
(B) Such vulnerability testing shall include automated vulnerability scanning, which shall
follow generally accepted best practices.
(C) A security-based swap execution facility shall conduct vulnerability testing by
engaging independent contractors or by using employees of the security-based swap execution
facility who are not responsible for development or operation of the systems or capabilities being
tested.
(iii) External penetration testing. A security-based swap execution facility shall conduct
external penetration testing of a scope sufficient to satisfy the requirements set forth in paragraph
489
(b)(10) of this section.
(A) A security-based swap execution facility shall conduct such external penetration
testing at a frequency determined by an appropriate risk analysis.
(B) A security-based swap execution facility shall conduct external penetration testing by
engaging independent contractors or by using employees of the security-based swap execution
facility who are not responsible for development or operation of the systems or capabilities being
tested.
(iv) Internal penetration testing. A security-based swap execution facility shall conduct
internal penetration testing of a scope sufficient to satisfy the requirements set forth in paragraph
(b)(10) of this section.
(A) A security-based swap execution facility shall conduct such internal penetration
testing at a frequency determined by an appropriate risk analysis.
(B) A security-based swap execution facility shall conduct internal penetration testing by
engaging independent contractors, or by using employees of the security-based swap execution
facility who are not responsible for development or operation of the systems or capabilities being
tested.
(v) Controls testing. A security-based swap execution facility shall conduct controls
testing of a scope sufficient to satisfy the requirements set forth in paragraph (b)(10) of this
section.
(A) A security-based swap execution facility shall conduct controls testing, which
includes testing of each control included in its program of risk analysis and oversight, at a
frequency determined by an appropriate risk analysis. Such testing may be conducted on a
rolling basis.
490
(B) A security-based swap execution facility shall conduct controls testing by engaging
independent contractors or by using employees of the security-based swap execution facility who
are not responsible for development or operation of the systems or capabilities being tested.
(vi) Security incident response plan testing. A security-based swap execution facility
shall conduct security incident response plan testing sufficient to satisfy the requirements set
forth in paragraph (b)(10) of this section.
(A) A security-based swap execution facility shall conduct such security incident
response plan testing at a frequency determined by an appropriate risk analysis.
(B) A security-based swap execution facility’s security incident response plan shall
include, without limitation, the security-based swap execution facility’s definition and
classification of security incidents, its policies and procedures for reporting security incidents
and for internal and external communication and information sharing regarding security
incidents, and the hand-off and escalation points in its security incident response process.
(C) A security-based swap execution facility may coordinate its security incident
response plan testing with other testing required by this section or with testing of its other
business continuity-disaster recovery and crisis management plans.
(D) A security-based swap execution facility may conduct security incident response plan
testing by engaging independent contractors or by using employees of the security-based swap
execution facility.
(vii) Enterprise technology risk assessment. A security-based swap execution facility
shall conduct enterprise technology risk assessment of a scope sufficient to satisfy the
requirements set forth in paragraph (b)(10) of this section.
(A) A security-based swap execution facility shall conduct enterprise technology risk
491
assessment at a frequency determined by an appropriate risk analysis. A security-based swap
execution facility that has conducted an enterprise technology risk assessment that complies with
this section may conduct subsequent assessments by updating the previous assessment.
(B) A security-based swap execution facility may conduct enterprise technology risk
assessments by using independent contractors or employees of the security-based swap execution
facility who are not responsible for development or operation of the systems or capabilities being
assessed.
(9) To the extent practicable, a security-based swap execution facility shall:
(i) Coordinate its business continuity-disaster recovery plan with those of its members
that it depends upon to provide liquidity, in a manner adequate to enable effective resumption of
activity in its markets following a disruption causing activation of the security-based swap
execution facility’s business continuity-disaster recovery plan;
(ii) Initiate and coordinate periodic, synchronized testing of its business continuitydisaster recovery plan with those of members that it depends upon to provide liquidity; and
(iii) Ensure that its business continuity-disaster recovery plan takes into account the
business continuity-disaster recovery plans of its telecommunications, power, water, and other
essential service providers.
(10) Scope of testing and assessment. The scope for all system safeguards testing and
assessment required by this section shall be broad enough to include the testing of automated
systems and controls that the security-based swap execution facility’s required program of risk
analysis and oversight and its current cybersecurity threat analysis indicate is necessary to
identify risks and vulnerabilities that could enable an intruder or unauthorized user or insider to:
(i) Interfere with the security-based swap execution facility’s operations or with
492
fulfillment of its statutory and regulatory responsibilities;
(ii) Impair or degrade the reliability, security, or adequate scalable capacity of the
security-based swap execution facility’s automated systems;
(iii) Add to, delete, modify, exfiltrate, or compromise the integrity of any data related to
the security-based swap execution facility’s regulated activities; or
(iv) Undertake any other unauthorized action affecting the security-based swap execution
facility’s regulated activities or the hardware or software used in connection with those activities.
(11) Internal reporting and review. Both the senior management and the governing
board of a security-based swap execution facility shall receive and review reports setting forth
the results of the testing and assessment required by this section. A security-based swap
execution facility shall establish and follow appropriate procedures for the remediation of issues
identified through such review, as provided in paragraph (b)(12) of this section, and for
evaluation of the effectiveness of testing and assessment protocols.
(12) Remediation. A security-based swap execution facility shall identify and document
the vulnerabilities and deficiencies in its systems revealed by the testing and assessment required
by this section. The security-based swap execution facility shall conduct and document an
appropriate analysis of the risks presented by such vulnerabilities and deficiencies, to determine
and document whether to remediate or accept the associated risk. When the security-based swap
execution facility determines to remediate a vulnerability or deficiency, it must remediate in a
timely manner given the nature and magnitude of the associated risk.
§ 242.831 Core Principle 14—Designation of chief compliance officer.
(a)(1) In general. Each security-based swap execution facility shall designate an
individual to serve as a chief compliance officer.
493
(2) Duties. The chief compliance officer shall:
(i) Report directly to the board or to the senior officer of the facility;
(ii) Review compliance with the core principles in this subsection;
(iii) In consultation with the board of the facility, a body performing a function similar to
that of a board, or the senior officer of the facility, resolve any conflicts of interest that may
arise;
(iv) Be responsible for establishing and administering the policies and procedures
required to be established pursuant to this section;
(v) Ensure compliance with the Act and the rules and regulations issued under the Act,
including rules prescribed by the Commission pursuant to section 3D of the Act; and
(vi) Establish procedures for the remediation of noncompliance issues found during
compliance office reviews, look backs, internal or external audit findings, self-reported errors, or
through validated complaints; and
(vii) Establish and follow appropriate procedures for the handling, management response,
remediation, retesting, and closing of noncompliance issues.
(3) Annual reports. (i) In general. In accordance with rules prescribed by the
Commission, the chief compliance officer shall annually prepare and sign a report that contains a
description of:
(A) The compliance of the security-based swap execution facility with the Act; and
(B) The policies and procedures, including the code of ethics and conflict of interest
policies, of the security-based swap execution facility.
(4) Requirements. The chief compliance officer shall:
(i) Submit each report described in paragraph (a)(3) of this section with the appropriate
494
financial report of the security-based swap execution facility that is required to be submitted to
the Commission pursuant to this section; and
(ii) Include in the report a certification that, under penalty of law, the report is accurate
and complete.
(b) Authority of chief compliance officer. (1) The position of chief compliance officer
shall carry with it the authority and resources to develop, in consultation with the governing
board or senior officer, the policies and procedures of the security-based swap execution facility
and enforce such policies and procedures to fulfill the duties set forth for chief compliance
officers in the Act and the Commission’s rules thereunder.
(ii) The chief compliance officer shall have supervisory authority over all staff acting at
the direction of the chief compliance officer.
(c) Qualifications of chief compliance officer. (1) The individual designated to serve as
chief compliance officer shall have the background and skills appropriate for fulfilling the
responsibilities of the position.
(2) No individual that would be disqualified from serving on a security-based swap
execution facility’s governing board or committees pursuant to the criteria set forth in
§ 242.819(i) may serve as a chief compliance officer.
(3) In determining whether the background and skills of a potential chief compliance
officer are appropriate for fulfilling the responsibilities of the role of the chief compliance
officer, a security-based swap execution facility has the discretion to base its determination on
the totality of the qualifications of the potential chief compliance officer, including, but not
limited to, compliance experience, related career experience, training, potential conflicts of
interest, and any other relevant factors to the position.
495
(d) Appointment and removal of chief compliance officer. (1) Only the governing board
or the senior officer may appoint or remove the chief compliance officer.
(2) The security-based swap execution facility shall notify the Commission within two
business days of the appointment or removal, whether interim or permanent, of a chief
compliance officer.
(e) Compensation of the chief compliance officer. The governing board or the senior
officer shall approve the compensation of the chief compliance officer.
(f) Annual meeting with the chief compliance officer. The chief compliance officer shall
meet with the governing board or senior officer of the security-based swap execution facility at
least annually.
(g) Information requested of the chief compliance officer. The chief compliance officer
shall provide any information regarding the regulatory program of the security-based swap
execution facility as requested by the governing board or the senior officer.
(h) Duties of chief compliance officer. The duties of the chief compliance officer shall
include, but are not limited to, the following:
(1) Overseeing and reviewing compliance of the security-based swap execution facility
with section 3D of the Act and the Commission rules thereunder;
(2) Taking reasonable steps, in consultation with the governing board or the senior officer
of the security-based swap execution facility, to resolve any material conflicts of interest that
may arise, including, but not limited to:
(i) Conflicts between business considerations and compliance requirements;
(ii) Conflicts between business considerations and the requirement that the security-based
swap execution facility provide fair, open, and impartial access as set forth in § 242.819(c); and
496
(iii) Conflicts between a security-based swap execution facility’s management and
members of the governing board;
(3) Establishing and administering written policies and procedures reasonably designed to
prevent violations of the Act and the rules of the Commission;
(4) Taking reasonable steps to ensure compliance with the Act and the rules of the
Commission;
(5) Establishing procedures reasonably designed to handle, respond, remediate, retest,
and resolve noncompliance issues identified by the chief compliance officer through any means,
including any compliance office review, look-back, internal or external audit finding, selfreported error, or validated complaint;
(6) Establishing and administering a compliance manual designed to promote compliance
with the applicable laws, rules, and regulations and a written code of ethics for the security-based
swap execution facility designed to prevent ethical violations and to promote honesty and ethical
conduct by personnel of the security-based swap execution facility;
(7) Supervising the regulatory program of the security-based swap execution facility with
respect to trade practice surveillance; market surveillance; real-time market monitoring;
compliance with audit trail requirements; enforcement and disciplinary proceedings; audits,
examinations, and other regulatory responsibilities (including taking reasonable steps to ensure
compliance with, if applicable, financial integrity, financial reporting, sales practice,
recordkeeping, and other requirements); and
(8) Supervising the effectiveness and sufficiency of any regulatory services provided to
the security-based swap execution facility by a regulatory service provider in accordance with
§ 242.819(e).
497
(i) Preparation of annual compliance report. The chief compliance officer shall, not less
than annually, prepare and sign an annual compliance report that covers the prior fiscal year.
The report shall, at a minimum, contain:
(1) A description and self-assessment of the effectiveness of the written policies and
procedures of the security-based swap execution facility, including the code of ethics and
conflict of interest policies, to reasonably ensure compliance with the Act and applicable
Commission rules;
(2) Any material changes made to compliance policies and procedures during the
coverage period for the report and any areas of improvement or recommended changes to the
compliance program;
(3) A description of the financial, managerial, and operational resources set aside for
compliance with the Act and applicable Commission rules;
(4) Any material non-compliance matters identified and an explanation of the
corresponding action taken to resolve such non-compliance matters; and
(5) A certification by the chief compliance officer that, to the best of their knowledge and
reasonable belief, and under penalty of law, the annual compliance report is accurate and
complete in all material respects.
(j) Submission of annual compliance report and related matters. (1) Furnishing the
annual compliance report prior to submission to the Commission. Prior to submission to the
Commission, the chief compliance officer shall provide the annual compliance report for review
to the governing board or, in the absence of a governing board, to the senior officer. Members of
the governing board and the senior officer shall not require the chief compliance officer to make
any changes to the report.
498
(2) Submission of annual compliance report to the Commission. The annual compliance
report shall be submitted electronically to the Commission using the EDGAR system as an
Interactive Data File in accordance with § 232.405 not later than 90 calendar days after the end
of the security-based swap execution facility’s fiscal year. The security-based swap execution
facility shall concurrently file the annual compliance report with the fourth-quarter financial
report pursuant to § 242.829(g).
(3) Amendments to annual compliance report. (i) Promptly upon discovery of any
material error or omission made in a previously filed annual compliance report, the chief
compliance officer shall file an amendment with the Commission to correct the material error or
omission. The chief compliance officer shall submit the amended annual compliance report to
the governing board, or in the absence of a governing board, to the senior officer, pursuant to
paragraph (j)(1) of this section.
(ii) An amendment shall contain the certification required under paragraph (i)(5) of this
section.
(4) Request for extension. A security-based swap execution facility may request an
extension of time to file its annual compliance report from the Commission. Reasonable and
valid requests for extensions of the filing deadline may be granted at the discretion of the
Commission.
(k) Recordkeeping. A security-based swap execution facility shall maintain all records
demonstrating compliance with the duties of the chief compliance officer and the preparation and
submission of annual compliance reports consistent with Core Principle 9 and § 242.826.
§ 242.832 Application of the trade execution requirement to cross-border securitybased swap transactions.
499
(a) The trade execution requirement set forth in section 3C(h) of the Act shall not apply
in connection with a security-based swap unless at least one counterparty to the security-based
swap is a “covered person” as defined below in paragraph (b) of this rule.
(b) A “covered person” means, with respect to a particular security-based swap, any
person that is:
(1) A U.S. person;
(2) A non-U.S. person whose performance under a security-based swap is guaranteed by
a U.S. person; or
(3) A non-U.S. person who, in connection with its security-based swap dealing activity,
uses U.S. personnel located in a U.S. branch or office, or personnel of an agent of such non-U.S.
person located in a U.S. branch or office, to arrange, negotiate, or execute a transaction.
§ 242.833 Cross-border exemptions.
(a) Exemptions for foreign trading venues for security-based swaps. An application for
an order for exemptive relief under section 36(a)(1) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78mm(a)(1)) relating
to the registration status under the Act of a foreign trading venue for security-based swaps that
has one or more members who are covered persons, as defined in § 242.832, with respect to
security-based swaps transacted on that venue may state that the application also is submitted
pursuant to this paragraph (a). In such case, the Commission will consider the submission as an
application to exempt the foreign trading venue, with respect to its providing a market place for
security-based swaps, from:
(1) The definition of “exchange” in section 3(a)(1) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(1));
(2) The definition of “security-based swap execution facility” in section 3(a)(77) of the
Act (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(77));
500
(3) The definition of “broker” in section 3(a)(4) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(4)); and
(4) Section 3D(a)(1) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78c-4(a)(1)).
(b) Exemptions relating to the trade execution requirement. (1) An application for an
order for exemptive relief under section 36(a)(1) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78mm(a)(1)) relating to
the application of the trade execution requirement in section 3C(h) of the Act (15 U.S.C.
78c-3(h)) to security-based swaps executed on a foreign trading venue, may state that the
application also is submitted pursuant to this paragraph (b).
(2) Considerations for exemption. When considering an application under section 36 of
the Act (15 U.S.C. 78mm) and this paragraph (b), the Commission may consider:
(i) The extent to which the security-based swaps traded in the foreign jurisdiction covered
by the request are subject to a trade execution requirement comparable to that in section 3C(h) of
the Act (15 U.S.C. 78c-3(h)) and the Commission’s rules thereunder;
(ii) The extent to which trading venues in the foreign jurisdiction covered by the request
are subject to regulation and supervision comparable to that under the Act, including section 3D
of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78c-4), and the Commission’s rules thereunder;
(iii) Whether the foreign trading venue or venues where covered persons, as defined in
§ 242.832, intend to trade security-based swaps have received an exemption order contemplated
by paragraph (a) of this section; and
(iv) Any other factor that the Commission believes is relevant for assessing whether the
exemption is in the public interest and consistent with the protection of investors.
§ 242.834 Mitigation of conflicts of interest of security-based swap execution facilities
and certain exchanges.
(a) Definitions. For purposes of this section:
501
(1) Family relationship of a person means the person’s spouse, former spouse, parent,
step-parent, child, step-child, sibling, step-brother, step-sister, grandparent, grandchild, uncle,
aunt, nephew, niece, or in-law.
(2) Major disciplinary committee means a committee of persons who are authorized by a
security-based swap execution facility to conduct disciplinary hearings, to settle disciplinary
charges, to impose disciplinary sanctions, or to hear appeals thereof in cases involving any
violation of the rules of the security-based swap execution facility except those which:
(i) Are related to decorum or attire, financial requirements, or reporting or recordkeeping;
and
(ii) Do not involve fraud, deceit, or conversion.
(3) Member's affiliated firm is a firm in which the member is a principal or an employee.
(4) Named party in interest means a person or entity that is identified by name as a
subject of any matter being considered by a governing board, disciplinary committee, or
oversight panel.
(5) Significant action includes any of the following types of actions or rule changes by a
security-based swap execution facility or SBS exchange that can be implemented without the
Commission’s prior approval:
(i) Any actions or rule changes which address an emergency; and
(ii) Any changes in margin levels that are designed to respond to extraordinary market
conditions such as an actual or attempted corner, squeeze, congestion, or undue concentration of
positions, or that otherwise are likely to have a substantial effect on prices in any contract traded
or cleared at such security-based swap execution facility or SBS exchange; but does not include
any rule not submitted for prior Commission approval because such rule is unrelated to the terms
502
and conditions of any security-based swap traded at such security-based swap execution facility
or SBS exchange.
(b) Each security-based swap execution facility and SBS exchange shall not permit any
of its members, either alone or together with any officer, principal, or employee of the member,
to:
(1) Own, directly or indirectly, 20 percent or more of any class of voting securities or of
other voting interest in the security-based swap execution facility or SBS exchange; or
(2) Directly or indirectly vote, cause the voting of, or give any consent or proxy with
respect to the voting of, any interest that exceeds 20 percent of the voting power of any class of
securities or of other ownership interest in the security-based swap execution facility or SBS
exchange.
(c) The rules of each security-based swap execution facility and SBS exchange must be
reasonably designed, and have an effective mechanism, to:
(1) Deny effect to the portion of any voting interest held by a member in excess of the
limitations in paragraph (b);
(2) Compel a member who possesses a voting interest in excess of the limitations in
paragraph (a) of this section to divest enough of that voting interest to come within those
limitations; and
(3) Obtain information relating to its ownership and voting interests owned or controlled,
directly or indirectly, by its members.
(d) Each security-based swap execution facility and SBS exchange shall ensure that its
disciplinary processes preclude any member, or group or class of its members, from dominating
or exercising disproportionate influence on the disciplinary process. Each major disciplinary
503
committee or hearing panel thereof shall include sufficient different groups or classes of its
members so as to ensure fairness and to prevent special treatment or preference for any person or
member in the conduct of the responsibilities of the committee or panel.
(e) Each security-based swap execution facility and SBS exchange shall ensure that:
(1) 20 percent or more of the persons who are eligible to vote routinely on matters being
considered by the governing board (excluding those members who are eligible to vote only in the
case of a tie vote by the governing board) are:
(i) Knowledgeable of security-based swap trading or financial regulation, or otherwise
capable of contributing to governing board deliberations;
(ii) Not members of the security-based swap execution facility or SBS exchange;
(iii) Not salaried employees of the security-based swap execution facility or SBS
exchange;
(iv) Not primarily performing services for the security-based swap execution facility or
SBS exchange in a capacity other than as a member of the governing board; and
(v) Not officers, principals, or employees of a firm which holds a membership at the
security-based swap execution facility or SBS exchange, either in its own name or through an
employee on behalf of the firm; and
(2) The membership of the governing board includes a diversity of groups or classes of
its members. The security-based swap execution facility or SBS exchange must be able to
demonstrate that the board membership fairly represents the diversity of interests at such
security-based swap execution facility or SBS exchange and is otherwise consistent with the
composition requirements of this section.
(f) Providing information about the board to the Commission. Each security-based swap
504
execution facility and SBS exchange shall submit to the Commission, within 30 days after each
governing board election, a list of the governing board’s members, the groups or classes of its
members that they represent, and how the composition of the governing board otherwise meets
the requirements of this section.
(g) Voting by interested members of governing boards and various committees of
security-based swap execution facilities and SBS exchanges. (1) Rules required. Each securitybased swap execution facility and SBS exchange shall maintain in effect rules to address the
avoidance of conflicts of interest in the execution of its regulatory functions. Such rules must
provide for the following:
(i) Relationship with named party in interest. (A) Nature of relationship. A member of a
governing board, disciplinary committee, or oversight panel of a security-based swap execution
facility or SBS exchange must abstain from such body’s deliberations and voting on any matter
involving a named party in interest where such member:
(1) Is a named party in interest;
(2) Is an employer, employee, or fellow employee of a named party in interest;
(3) Has any other significant, ongoing business relationship with a named party in
interest, not including relationships limited to executing security-based swaps opposite of each
other or to clearing security-based swaps through the same clearing member; or
(4) Has a family relationship with a named party in interest.
(B) Disclosure of relationship. Prior to the consideration of any matter involving a
named party in interest, each member of a governing board, disciplinary committee, or oversight
panel of a security-based swap execution facility or SBS exchange must disclose to the
appropriate staff of the security-based swap execution facility or SBS exchange whether they
505
have one of the relationships listed in paragraph (g)(1)(i)(A) of this section with a named party in
interest.
(C) Procedure for determination. Each security-based swap execution facility and SBS
exchange must establish procedures for determining whether any member of its governing board,
disciplinary committees, or oversight committees is subject to a conflicts restriction in any matter
involving a named party in interest. Taking into consideration the exigency of the committee
action, such determinations should be based upon:
(1) Information provided by the member pursuant to paragraph (g)(1)(i)(B) of this
section; and
(2) Any other source of information that is held by and reasonably available to the
security-based swap execution facility or SBS exchange.
(ii) Financial interest in a significant action. (A) Nature of interest. A member of the
governing board, disciplinary committee, or oversight panel of a security-based swap execution
facility or SBS exchange must abstain from such body’s deliberations and voting on any
significant action if the member knowingly has a direct and substantial financial interest in the
result of the vote based upon either exchange or non-exchange positions that could reasonably be
expected to be affected by the action.
(B) Disclosure of interest. Prior to the consideration of any significant action, each
member of a governing board, disciplinary committee, or oversight panel of a security-based
swap execution facility or SBS exchange must disclose to the appropriate staff of the securitybased swap execution facility or SBS exchange the position information referred to in paragraph
(g)(1)(ii)(C) of this section that is known to them. This requirement does not apply to members
who choose to abstain from deliberations and voting on the subject significant action.
506
(C) Procedure for determination. Each security-based swap execution facility and SBS
exchange must establish procedures for determining whether any member of its governing board,
disciplinary committees, or oversight committees is subject to a conflicts restriction under this
section in any significant action. Such determination must include a review of any positions,
whether maintained at that security-based swap execution facility, SBS exchange, or elsewhere,
held in the member’s personal accounts or the proprietary accounts of the member’s affiliated
firm that the security-based swap execution facility or SBS exchange reasonably expects could
be affected by the significant action.
(D) Bases for determination. Taking into consideration the exigency of the significant
action, such determinations should be based upon:
(1) Information provided by the member with respect to positions pursuant to paragraph
(f)(2)(ii)(B) of this section; and
(2) Any other source of information that is held by and reasonably available to the
security-based swap execution facility or SBS exchange.
(iii) Participation in deliberations. (A) Under the rules required by this section, a
governing board, disciplinary committee, or oversight panel of a security-based swap execution
facility or SBS exchange may permit a member to participate in deliberations prior to a vote on a
significant action for which they otherwise would be required to abstain, pursuant to paragraph
(g)(1)(ii) of this section, if such participation would be consistent with the public interest and the
member recuses from voting on such action.
(B) In making a determination as to whether to permit a member to participate in
deliberations on a significant action for which they otherwise would be required to abstain, the
deliberating body shall consider the following factors:
507
(1) Whether the member’s participation in deliberations is necessary for the deliberating
body to achieve a quorum in the matter; and
(2) Whether the member has unique or special expertise, knowledge, or experience in the
matter under consideration.
(C) Prior to any determination pursuant to paragraph (g)(1)(iii)(A) of this section, the
deliberating body must fully consider the position information which is the basis for the
member’s direct and substantial financial interest in the result of a vote on a significant action
pursuant to paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of this section.
(iv) Documentation of determination. The governing boards, disciplinary committees,
and oversight panels of each security-based swap execution facility and SBS exchange must
reflect in their minutes or otherwise document that the conflicts determination procedures
required by this section have been followed. Such records also must include:
(A) The names of all members who attended the meeting in person or who otherwise
were present by electronic means;
(B) The name of any members who voluntarily recused themselves or were required to
abstain from deliberations and/or voting on a matter and the reason for the recusal or abstention,
if stated; and
(C) Information on the position information that was reviewed for each member.
(h) Rules required. (1) A security-based swap execution facility shall maintain in effect
rules to comply with this section that have been submitted to the Commission pursuant to
§ 242.806 or 242.807.
(2) An SBS exchange shall maintain in effect rules to comply with this section that have
been submitted to the Commission pursuant to § 240.19b-4.
508
§ 242.835 Notice to Commission by security-based swap execution facility of final
disciplinary action or denial or limitation of access.
(a) Notice to Commission. If a security-based swap execution facility issues a final
disciplinary action against a member, or takes final action with respect to a denial or
conditioning membership, or takes final action with respect to a denial or limitation of access of
a person to any services offered by the security-based swap execution facility, the security-based
swap execution facility shall file a notice of such action with the Commission within 30 days and
serve a copy on the affected person.
(b) For purposes of paragraph (a) of this section:
(1) A disciplinary action shall not be considered “final” unless:
(i) The affected person has sought an adjudication or hearing with respect to the matter,
or otherwise exhausted their administrative remedies at the security-based swap execution
facility; and
(ii) The disciplinary action is not a summary action permitted under § 242.819(g)(13)(ii).
(2) A disposition of a matter with respect to a denial or conditioning of membership, or a
denial or limitation of access shall not be considered “final” unless such person has sought an
adjudication or hearing, or otherwise exhausted their administrative remedies at the securitybased swap execution facility with respect to such matter.
(c) Contents of notice. A notice required by paragraph (a) of this section shall provide
the following information:
(i) The name of the member and its last known address, as reflected in the security-based
swap execution facility’s records;
(ii) The name of the person, committee, or other organizational unit of the security-based
509
swap execution facility that initiated the disciplinary action or access restriction;
(iii) In the case of a final disciplinary action:
(A) A description of the acts or practices, or omissions to act, upon which the sanction is
based, including, as appropriate, the specific rules that the security-based swap execution facility
has found to have been violated;
(B) A statement describing the respondent’s answer to the charges; and
(C) A statement of the sanction imposed and the reasons therefor;
(iv) In the case of a final action with respect to a denial or conditioning of membership,
or a denial or limitation of access:
(A) The financial or operating difficulty of the member or prospective member (as the
case may be) upon which the security-based swap execution facility determined that the member
or prospective member could not be permitted to do, or continue to do, business with safety to
investors, creditors, other members, or the security-based swap execution facility;
(B) The pertinent failure to meet qualification requirements or other prerequisites for
membership or access and the basis upon which the security-based swap execution facility
determined that the person concerned could not be permitted to have membership or access with
safety to investors, creditors, other members, or the security-based swap execution facility; or
(C) The default of any delivery of funds or securities to a clearing agency by the member;
(v) The effective date of the final disciplinary action, or final action with respect to a
denial or conditioning of membership, or a denial or limitation of access; and
(vii) Any other information that the security-based swap execution facility may deem
relevant.
***
510
*****
PART 249 – FORMS, SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
18. The general authority citation for part 249 continues to read in part as follows:
Authority: 15 U.S.C. 78a et seq. and 7201 et seq.; 12 U.S.C. 5461 et seq.; 18 U.S.C.
1350; Sec. 953(b), Pub. L. 111-203, 124 Stat. 1904; Sec. 102(a)(3), Pub. L. 112-106, 126 Stat.
309 (2012); Sec. 107, Pub. L. 112-106, 126 Stat. 313 (2012), Sec. 72001, Pub. L. 114-94, 129
Stat. 1312 (2015), and secs. 2 and 3, Pub. L. 116-222, 134 Stat. 1063 (2020), unless otherwise
noted.
19. Add §249.2001 to read as follows:
§ 249.2001 Form SBSEF, for application for registration as a security-based swap
execution facility or to amend such application or registration.
This form shall be used for application for registration as a security-based swap execution
facility, pursuant to section 3D of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c-4) and
§242.803 of this chapter, or to amend such application or registration.
By the Commission.
 Dated: April 6, 2022
Vanessa A. Countryman
Secretary
511
APPENDIX A
Note: Form SBSEF will not appear in the Code of Federal Regulations.
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
FORM SBSEF
SECURITY-BASED SWAP EXECUTION FACILITY
APPLICATION FOR REGISTRATION
(and AMENDMENT TO APPLICATION)
REGISTRATION INSTRUCTIONS
Intentional misstatements or omissions of material fact may constitute federal criminal
violations or grounds for disqualification from registration.
DEFINITIONS
All terms used in this Form SBSEF—which includes instructions, a Cover Sheet, and required
Exhibits—shall have the same meaning as in Regulation SE (17 CFR 242.800 et seq.)
promulgated under Section 3D of the Securities Exchange Act (the “Act”) by the Securities and
Exchange Commission (“Commission”).
The term “Applicant” shall include any person submitting an application for registration as a
security-based swap execution facility under Section 3D of the Act and Regulation SE
thereunder, and any person who is amending a pending application.
GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS
1. This Form SBSEF shall be filed with the Commission by any person applying to register
with the Commission as a security-based swap execution facility. Upon the filing of an
application for registration in accordance with the instructions provided herein, the
Commission will publish notice of the filing and afford interested persons an opportunity to
submit written data, views, and arguments concerning such application. No application for
registration shall be effective unless the Commission, by order, grants such registration.
2. Individuals’ names, except the executing signature, shall be given in full (Last Name, First
Name, Middle Name).
3. Signatures on all copies of the Form SBSEF filed with the Commission may be executed
electronically. If this Form SBSEF is filed by a corporation, it shall be signed in the name of
the corporation by a principal officer duly authorized; if filed by a limited liability company,
512
it shall be signed in the name of the limited liability company by a manager or member duly
authorized to sign on the limited liability company’s behalf; if filed by a partnership, it shall
be signed in the name of the partnership by a general partner duly authorized; if filed by an
unincorporated organization or association which is not a partnership, it shall be signed in the
name of such organization or association by the managing agent (i.e., a duly authorized
person who directs or manages, or who participates in the directing or managing of, its
affairs).
4. If this Form SBSEF is being filed as an application for registration, all applicable items must
be answered in full. If any item is inapplicable, indicate by “none,” “not applicable,” or
“N/A,” as appropriate. If this Form SBSEF is being filed as an amendment to an application
for registration, only the coversheet and the amended exhibits need to be filed in full.
5. Under Section 3D of the Act and the Commission’s rules thereunder, the Commission is
authorized to solicit the information required to be supplied by this Form SBSEF from any
Applicant seeking registration as a security-based swap execution facility. Disclosure by the
Applicant of the information specified on this Form SBSEF is mandatory prior to the start of
the processing of an application for registration as a security-based swap execution facility.
The information provided in this Form SBSEF will be used for the principal purpose of
determining whether the Commission should grant or deny registration to an Applicant. The
Commission may determine that additional information is required from the Applicant in
order to process its application. A Form SBSEF which is not prepared and executed in
compliance with applicable requirements and instructions may be returned as not
acceptable for filing. Acceptance of this Form SBSEF, however, shall not constitute a
finding that the Form SBSEF has been filed as required or that the information
submitted is true, current, or complete.
6. Except in cases where confidential treatment is requested by the Applicant and granted by the
Commission, information supplied on this Form SBSEF will be included routinely in the
public files of the Commission and will be available for inspection by any interested person.
APPLICATION AMENDMENTS
1. An Applicant may amend a pending application for registration as a security-based swap
execution facility to correct, update, or supplement its initial submission.
2. When filing this Form SBSEF for purposes of amending a pending application, an Applicant
shall re-file the Cover Sheet, amended if necessary and including an executing signature, and
attach thereto revised Exhibits or other materials marked to show changes, as applicable.
The submission of an amendment represents that the remaining items and Exhibits that are
not amended remain true, current, and complete as previously filed.
513
MANNER OF FILING
This Form SBSEF must be filed electronically using the Commission’s Electronic Data
Gathering, Analysis, and Retrieval (“EDGAR”) system. The disclosures on this Form SBSEF
must be provided as an Interactive Data File in accordance with Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (17
CFR 232.405).
514
SECURITIES EXCHANGE COMMISSION
FORM SBSEF
SECURITY-BASED SWAP EXECUTION FACILITY
APPLICATION OR AMENDMENT TO APPLICATION FOR
REGISTRATION
COVER SHEET
______________________________________________________________________________
Exact name of Applicant as specified in charter
______________________________________________________________________________
Address of principal executive offices
 If this is an APPLICATION for registration, complete in full and check here.
 If this is an AMENDMENT to an application, list all items that are amended and check here.
______________________________________________________________________________
______________________________________________________________________________
______________________________________________________________________________
______________________________________________________________________________
GENERAL INFORMATION
1. Name under which the business of the security-based swap execution facility is or will be
conducted, if different from name specified above (include acronyms, if any):
______________________________________________________________________________

2. If name of security-based swap execution facility is being amended, state previous
security-based swap execution facility name:
______________________________________________________________________________
3. Contact information, including mailing address if different from address specified above:
______________________________________________________________________________
Number and Street
______________________________________________________________________________
515
City State Country Zip Code
______________________________________________________________________________
Main Phone Number Fax (if applicable)
______________________________________________________________________________
Website URL Email Address
4. List of principal office(s) and address(es) where security-based swap execution facility
activities are/will be conducted:
Office
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
Address
____________________________________
____________________________________
____________________________________

5. If the Applicant is a successor to a previously registered security-based swap execution
facility, please complete the following:
a. Date of succession
______________________
b. Full name and address of predecessor registrant
__________________________________________________________________
Name
__________________________________________________________________
Number and Street
__________________________________________________________________
City State Country Zip Code
__________________________________________________________________
Main Phone Number Website URL
BUSINESS ORGANIZATION
6. Applicant is a:
 Corporation
 Partnership
 Limited Liability Company
 Other form of organization (specify) ____________________________
7. Date of incorporation or formation:__________________________________________
516
8. State of incorporation or jurisdiction of organization:____________________________
9. The Applicant agrees and consents that the notice of any proceeding before the
Commission in connection with this application may be given by sending such notice by
certified mail to the person named below at the address given.
______________________________________________________________________________
Print Name and Title
______________________________________________________________________________
Name of Applicant
______________________________________________________________________________
Number and Street
______________________________________________________________________________
City State
Zip Code
SIGNATURES
10. The Applicant has duly caused this application or amendment to be signed on its behalf
by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized, this ___________ day of
________________________________, 20_____. The Applicant and the undersigned
represent hereby that all information contained herein is true, current, and complete. It is
understood that all required items and Exhibits are considered integral parts of this Form
SBSEF and that the submission of any amendment represents that all unamended items
and Exhibits remain true, current, and complete as previously filed.
______________________________________________________________________________
Name of Applicant
______________________________________________________________________________
Signature of Duly Authorized Person
______________________________________________________________________________
Print Name and Title of Signatory
517
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
FORM SBSEF
SECURITY-BASED SWAP EXECUTION FACILITY
APPLICATION OR AMENDMENT TO APPLICATION FOR
REGISTRATION
EXHIBITS INSTRUCTIONS
The following Exhibits must be filed with the Commission by an Applicant applying for
registration as a security-based swap execution facility, or by a registered security-based swap
execution facility amending its registration, pursuant to Section 3D of the Act and the
Commission’s rules thereunder. The Exhibits must be labeled according to the items specified in
this Form SBSEF.
The application must include a Table of Contents listing each Exhibit required by this Form
SBSEF and indicating which, if any, Exhibits are inapplicable. For any Exhibit that is
inapplicable, next to the Exhibit letter specify “none,” “not applicable,” or “N/A,” as appropriate.
If the Applicant is a newly formed enterprise and does not have the financial statements required
pursuant to Items 9 and 10 (Exhibits I and J) of this Form SBSEF, the Applicant should provide
pro forma financial statements for the most recent six months or since inception, whichever is
less.
LIST OF EXHIBITS
EXHIBITS – BUSINESS ORGANIZATION
1. Attach as Exhibit A, the name of any person who owns ten percent (10%) or more of the
Applicant’s stock or who, either directly or indirectly, through agreement or otherwise, in
any other manner, may control or direct the management or policies of the Applicant.
Provide as part of Exhibit A the full name and address of each such person and attach a copy
of the agreement or, if there is none written, describe the agreement or basis upon which such
person exercises or may exercise such control or direction.
2. Attach as Exhibit B, a list of the present officers, directors, governors (and, in the case of an
Applicant that is not a corporation, the members of all standing committees, grouped by
committee), or persons performing functions similar to any of the foregoing, of the securitybased swap execution facility or of any entity that performs the regulatory activities of the
Applicant, indicating for each:
518
a. Name
b. Title
c. Dates of commencement and termination of present term of office or position
d. Length of time each present officer, director, or governor has held the same office or
position
e. Brief account of the business experience of each officer and director over the last five
years
f. Any other business affiliations in the derivatives and securities industry
g. For directors, list any committees on which they serve and any compensation
received by virtue of their directorship
h. Whether the person has been subject to a disciplinary action of any type noted in
§ 242.819(i) of Regulation SE and, if so, describe.
3. Attach as Exhibit C, a narrative that sets forth the fitness standards for the governing board
and its composition.
4. Attach as Exhibit D, a narrative or graphic description of the organizational structure of the
Applicant. Include a list of all affiliates of the Applicant and indicate the general nature of
the affiliation. If the security-based swap execution facility activities of the Applicant are or
will be conducted primarily by a division, subdivision, or other separate entity within the
Applicant, describe the relationship of such entity within the overall organizational structure
and attach as Exhibit D a description only as it applies to the division, subdivision, or
separate entity, as applicable. Additionally, state any jurisdictions in which the Applicant or
any affiliated entity is doing business, and its registration status in that jurisdiction, including
pending registrations (e.g., jurisdiction, regulator, registration category, date of registration).
Provide the address for legal service of process for each jurisdiction, which cannot be a post
office box.
5. Attach as Exhibit E, a description of the personnel qualifications for each category of
professional employees employed by the Applicant or the division, subdivision, or other
separate entity within the Applicant, as described in Item 4.
6. Attach as Exhibit F, an analysis of staffing requirements necessary to carry out the
operations of the Applicant as a security-based swap execution facility and the name and
qualifications of each key staff person.
7. Attach as Exhibit G, a copy of the constitution; articles of incorporation, formation, or
association, with all amendments thereto; partnership or limited liability agreements; and
existing by-laws, operating agreement, rules, or instruments corresponding thereto, of the
Applicant. Include any additional governance fitness information not included in Exhibit C.
Provide a certificate of good standing dated within one week of the date of this Form SBSEF.
8. Attach as Exhibit H, a brief description of any material pending legal proceeding(s), other
than ordinary and routine litigation incidental to the business, to which the Applicant or any
of its affiliates is a party or to which any of its or their property is the subject. For each such
519
proceeding, include the name of the court or agency where the proceeding is pending, the
date instituted, the principal parties involved, a description of the factual basis alleged to
underlie the proceeding, and the relief sought. Include similar information as to any
proceeding known to be contemplated by a governmental agency.
EXHIBITS —FINANCIAL INFORMATION
9. Attach as Exhibit I:
a. (i) Balance sheet; (ii) Statement of income and expenses; (iii) Statement of cash
flows; and (iv) Statement of sources and application of revenues and all notes or
schedules thereto, as of the most recent fiscal year of the Applicant, or of its parent
company, if applicable. If a balance sheet and any statement(s) certified by an
independent public accountant are available, that balance sheet and statement(s)
should be submitted as Exhibit I.
b. Provide a narrative of how the value of the financial resources of the Applicant is at
least equal to a total amount that would enable the Applicant to cover its operating
costs for a period of at least one year, calculated on a rolling basis, and whether such
financial resources include unencumbered, liquid financial assets (i.e., cash and/or
highly liquid securities) equal to at least six months’ operating costs.
c. Attach copies of any agreements establishing or amending a credit facility, insurance
coverage, or other arrangement evidencing or otherwise supporting the Applicant’s
conclusions regarding the liquidity of its financial assets.
d. Representations regarding sources and estimates for future ongoing operational
resources.
10. Attach as Exhibit J, a balance sheet and an income and expense statement for each affiliate
of the security-based swap execution facility that also engages in security-based swap
execution facility activities or is a national securities exchange as of the end of the most
recent fiscal year of each such affiliate.
11. Attach as Exhibit K, the following:
a. A complete list of all dues, fees, and other charges imposed, or to be imposed, by or
on behalf of the Applicant for its security-based swap execution facility services that
are provided on an exclusive basis and identify the service or services provided for
each such due, fee, or other charge.
b. A description of the basis and methods used in determining the level and structure of
the dues, fees, and other charges listed in paragraph (a) of this item.
520
c. If the Applicant differentiates, or proposes to differentiate, among its members in the
amount of any dues, fees, or other charges imposed for the same or similar exclusive
services, describe and indicate the amount of each differential. In addition, identify
and describe any differences in the cost of providing such services and any other
factors that account for such differentiations.
EXHIBITS —COMPLIANCE
12. Attach as Exhibit L, a narrative and any other form of documentation that may be provided
under other Exhibits herein, that describes the manner in which the Applicant is able to
comply with each Core Principle. Such documentation must include a regulatory compliance
chart setting forth each Core Principle and providing citations to the Applicant’s relevant
rules, policies, and procedures that address each Core Principle. To the extent that the
application raises issues that are novel or for which compliance with a Core Principle is not
self-evident, include an explanation of how that item and the application satisfy the Core
Principles.
13. Attach as Exhibit M, a copy of the Applicant’s rules and any technical manuals, other
guides, or instructions for members, including minimum financial standards for members.
Include rules on publication of daily trading information with regards to the requirements of
Regulation SBSR (§§ 242.900 through 242.909). The Applicant should include an
explanation and any other form of documentation that the Applicant thinks will be helpful to
its explanation, demonstrating how its rules, technical manuals, other guides, or instructions
for members or minimum financial standards for members, as provided in this Exhibit M,
help support the security-based swap execution facility’s compliance with the Core
Principles.
14. Attach as Exhibit N, executed or executable copies of any agreements or contracts entered
into or to be entered into by the Applicant, including third-party regulatory service provider
or member or user agreements that enable or empower the Applicant to comply with
applicable Core Principles. Identify: (1) the services that will be provided; and (2) the Core
Principles addressed by such agreement.
15. Attach as Exhibit O, a copy of any compliance manual and any other document that
describes with specificity the manner in which the Applicant will conduct trade practice,
market, and financial surveillance.
16. Attach as Exhibit P, a description of the Applicant’s disciplinary and enforcement protocols,
tools, and procedures and, if applicable, the arrangements for alternative dispute resolution.
17. Attach as Exhibit Q, an explanation regarding the operation of the Applicant’s trading
system(s) or platform(s) and the manner in which the system(s) or platform(s) satisfy any
Commission rules, interpretations, or guidelines regarding a security-based swap execution
facility’s execution methods, including the minimum trading functionality requirement in
521
§ 242.803 of the Commission’s regulations. This explanation should include, as applicable,
the following:
a. For trading systems or platforms that enable members to engage in transactions
through an order book:
(1) How the trading system or platform displays all orders and trades in an
electronic or other form, and the timeliness in which the trading system or
platform does so;
(2) How all market participants have the ability to see and have the ability to
transact on all bids and offers; and
(3) An explanation of the trade matching algorithm, if applicable, and examples
of how that algorithm works in various trading scenarios involving various
types of orders.
b. For trading systems or platforms that enable members to engage in transactions
through a request-for-quote system:
(1) How a member transmits a request for a quote to buy or sell a specific
instrument to no less than three market participants in the trading system or
platform, to which all members may respond;
(2) How resting bids or offers from the Applicant’s Order Book are
communicated to the requester; and
(3) How a requester may transact on resting bids or offers along with the
responsive orders.
c. How the timing delay described under § 242.815(b) of Regulation SE is incorporated
into the trading system or platform.
18. Attach as Exhibit R, a list of rules prohibiting specific trade practices.
19. Attach as Exhibit S, a discussion of how trading data will be maintained by the securitybased swap execution facility.
20. Attach as Exhibit T, a list of the name of the clearing organization(s) that will clear the
Applicant’s trades, and a representation that clearing members of that organization will be
guaranteeing such trades.
21. Attach as Exhibit U, any information (described with particularity) included in the
application that will be subject to a request for confidential treatment pursuant to Securities
Exchange Act Rule 24b-2, 17 CFR 240.24b-2.
522
APPENDIX B
19. Add § 249.2002 to read as follows:
§ 249.2002 Submission cover sheet, for rule and product submissions.
This submission cover sheet shall be used by registered security-based swap execution
facilities for making submissions pursuant to Rules 804 through 807, 809, and 816 (§ 242.804
through 242.807, 242.809, and 242.816).
Note: The submission cover sheet will not appear in the Code of Federal Regulations.
§ 249.2002–Cover Sheet and Instructions for Rule and Product Submissions
SECURITY-BASED SWAP EXECUTION FACILITY
SUBMISSION COVER SHEET
IMPORTANT: Check box if Confidential Treatment is requested 
Name of Security-Based Swap Execution Facility:_____________________________________
Platform ID of Security-Based Swap Execution Facility: ___________________________
Filing Date (mm/dd/yy): ___________
Filing Description (See Instructions):
______________________________________________________________________
SPECIFY FILING TYPE Please note only ONE choice allowed per Submission.
Rules and Rule Amendments (except where relating to product terms and conditions – see
below)
 Self-Certification Rule 807(a)
 Approval Rule 806(a)
 Notification Rule 807(d)
Rule Numbers: _________________________________________________________________
New Product Please note only ONE product per Submission.
523
 Self-Certification Rule 804(a)
 Approval Rule 805(a)
Official Product Name: __________________________________________________________
Please check the following box if you intend to submit a request for a joint interpretation from
the Commission and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission regarding whether the new
product is a swap, security-based swap, or mixed swap pursuant to Rule 3a68-2 under the
Securities Exchange Act: 
Product Terms and Conditions (product-related Rules and Rule Amendments)
 Certification Rule 807(a)
 Certification – Made Available to Trade Determination Rule 816(a)
 Delisting (No Open Interest) Rule 807(a)
 Approval Rule 806(a)
 Approval – Made Available to Trade Determination Rule 816(a)
 Notification Rule 807(d)
Official Name(s) of Product(s) Affected:_____________________________________________
Rule Numbers: _________________________________________________________________
Submission Cover Sheet and Instructions for Rule and Product Filings
(a) A properly completed submission cover sheet shall accompany all rule and product
submissions submitted electronically to the Commission by a security-based swap execution
facility using the EDGAR system as an Interactive Data File in accordance with Rule 405 of
Regulation S-T (17 CFR 232.405). A properly completed submission cover sheet shall include
all of the following:
(1) Organization. The name of the security-based swap execution facility filing the
submission.
(2) Date. The date of the filing.
(3) Type of Filing. An indication as to whether the filing is a new rule, rule amendment,
or new product. The security-based swap execution facility should check the appropriate box to
indicate the applicable category under that heading.
(4) Rule Numbers. For rule filings, the rule number(s) being adopted or modified in the
case of rule amendment filings.
(5) Description. For rule or rule amendment filings, a description of the new rule or rule
amendment, including a discussion of its expected impact on the security-based swap execution
facility, its members, and the overall market. The narrative should describe the substance of the
submission with enough specificity to characterize all material aspects of the filing.
(b) Other Requirements. A submission shall comply with all applicable filing
requirements for proposed rules, rule amendments, or products. The filing of the submission
cover sheet does not obviate the security-based swap execution facility’s responsibility to
comply with applicable filing requirements (e.g., rules submitted for Commission approval under
524
Rule 806 must be accompanied by an explanation of the purpose and effect of the proposed rule
along with a description of any substantive opposing views).
(c) Checking the box marked “confidential treatment requested” on the submission cover
sheet does not obviate the submitter’s responsibility to comply with all applicable requirements
for requesting confidential treatment in Securities Exchange Act Rule 24b-2, 17 CFR 240.24b-2,
and will not substitute for notice or full compliance with such requirements. 