Conformed to Federal Register version
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
17 CFR Part 240
[Release No. 34-94212; File No. S7-07-22]
RIN 3235-AN03
The Commission’s Whistleblower Program Rules
AGENCY: Securities and Exchange Commission.
ACTION: Proposed rule.
SUMMARY: The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission” or “SEC”) is proposing
for public comment amendments to the Commission’s rules implementing its whistleblower
program. The Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) provides for, among other
things, the issuance of monetary awards to any eligible whistleblower who voluntarily provides
the SEC with original information about a securities law violation that leads to the SEC’s success
in obtaining a monetary order of more than a million dollars in a covered judicial or
administrative action brought by the SEC (“covered action”). If an eligible whistleblower
qualifies for an award, Section 21F requires an award that is at least 10 percent, but no more than
30 percent, of the amount of the monetary sanctions collected in the covered action. The receipt
of an award in a covered action also enables a whistleblower to qualify for an award in
connection with judicial or administrative actions based on the whistleblower’s same original
information and brought by the U.S. Department of Justice (“DOJ”) and certain other statutorily
identified agencies or entities (“related actions”). The proposed rules would make two
substantive changes to the Commission’s whistleblower rules that implement the whistleblower
program, as well as several conforming amendments and technical corrections.
DATES: Comments should be received on or before April 11, 2022.
ADDRESSES: Comments may be submitted by any of the following methods:
Electronic Comments
• Use the Commission’s internet comment form
(https://www.sec.gov/rules/submitcomments.htm); or
• Send an email to rule-comments@sec.gov. Please include File Number S7-07-22 on the
subject line; or
Paper Comments
• Send paper comments to, Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 100 F
Street NE, Washington, DC 20549-1090.
All submissions should refer to File Number S7-07-22. This file number should be included on
the subject line if e-mail is used. To help us process and review your comments more efficiently,
please use only one method of submission. The Commission will post all comments on the
Commission’s website (http://www.sec/gov/rules/proposed.shtml). Typically, comments are
also available for website viewing and printing in the Commission’s Public Reference Room,
100 F Street NE, Washington, DC 20549, on official business days between the hours of 10 a.m.
and 3 p.m. Operating conditions may limit access to the Commission’s public reference room.
All comments received will be posted without change. Persons submitting comments are
cautioned that we do not redact or edit personal identifying information from comment
submissions. You should submit only information that you wish to make available publicly.
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Emily Pasquinelli, Office of the
Whistleblower, Division of Enforcement, at (202) 551-5973; Hannah W. Riedel, Office of the
General Counsel, at (202) 551-7918, Securities and Exchange Commission, 100 F Street NE,
Washington, DC 20549.
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The Commission is proposing to amend the rules set
forth in the table below.
Amendments
Commission Reference CFR Citation (17 CFR)
Rule 21F-3 § 240.21F-3
Rule 21F-4 § 240.21F-4
Rule 21F-6 § 240.21F-6
Rule 21F-8 § 240.21F-8
Rule 21F-10 § 240.21F-10
Rule 21F-11 § 240.21F-11
Table of Contents
I. Introduction
A. The Whistleblower Award Program
B. Overview of the Proposed Rules
II. Discussion of Proposed Rules
A. Proposed Amendment to Exchange Act Rule 21F-3(b) defining a “comparable”
whistleblower award program for related actions
1. The Comparability Approach
2. Whistleblower’s Choice Option
3. Other alternatives
B. Proposed Amendment to Exchange Act Rule 21F-6 regarding size of award
C. Proposed Technical Amendments to Rule 21F-4(c) and Rule 21F-8(e)
III. General Request for Public Comment
IV. Economic Analysis
A. Economic Baseline
B. Proposed Rules
1. Proposed Rule 21F-3(b)(3)
2. Proposed Rule 21F-6
C. Additional Alternatives
D. Effects of the Proposed Rules on Efficiency, Competition, and Capital Formation
V. Small Business Regulatory Enforcement Fairness Act
VI. Regulatory Flexibility Act Certification
VII. Statutory Basis
I. Introduction
A. The Whistleblower Award Program
Section 21F of the Exchange Act, among other things, directs that the Commission pay
awards, subject to certain limitations and conditions, to whistleblowers who voluntarily provide
the Commission with original information about a violation of the federal securities laws and
regulations that leads to the successful enforcement of a covered action and certain related
actions brought by other statutorily identified authorities.
1 Section 21F provides that an award
must be at least 10 percent, but no more than 30 percent, of the amount of the monetary sanctions
collected in the action for which the award is granted.2
 Whistleblower awards are paid from a
dedicated Investor Protection Fund (“IPF”) created by Congress.
3
In May 2011, the Commission adopted a comprehensive set of rules to implement the
whistleblower program.4
 Those rules, which were codified at 17 CFR 240.21F-1 through
240.21F-17, provide the operative definitions, requirements, and processes related to the
whistleblower program. In June 2018, the Commission proposed amendments to the rules
(“Proposing Release” or “2018 Proposal”).
5
 After reviewing the numerous public comments that
 1 15 U.S.C. 78u-6(a)(5) (“The term ‘related action’, when used with respect to any judicial or
administrative action brought by the Commission under the securities laws, means any judicial or
administrative action brought by an entity described in subclauses (I) through (IV) of subsection
(h)(2)(D)(i) [of the Exchange Act] that is based upon the original information provided by a
whistleblower . . . that led to the successful enforcement of the Commission action.”).
2 See 15 U.S.C. 78u-6(b).
3 The IPF, which was established as part of the whistleblower program, is a statutorily
established fund within the U.S. Department of the Treasury from which Commission
whistleblower awards are paid. See Exchange Act Section 21F(g)(3), 15 U.S.C. 78u-6. The IPF
operates under a continuing appropriation and has a statutorily created self-replenishing process.
Id.
4 Securities Whistleblower Incentives and Protections, Release No. 34-64545, 76 FR 34300
(June 13, 2011). See also Proposed Rules for Implementing the Whistleblower Provisions of
Section 21F of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, 75 FR 70502 (Nov. 17, 2010).
5 Whistleblower Program Rules, Release No. 34-83557, 83 FR 34702 (proposed June 28, 2018)
were received in response to the 2018 Proposal, the Commission adopted various amendments to
the whistleblower program rules (referred to interchangeably as “Adopting Release,” “Final
Rule,” and “2020 Amendments”)6 in September 2020.
7

Two of the rules amended in September 2020 are the subject of this proposing release.
The first is 17 CFR 240.21F-3(b)(3) (Rule 21F-3(b)(3)), which addresses situations in which the
SEC’s whistleblower program and at least one other whistleblower program may apply to the
same related action. The 2020 Amendments authorized the Commission to determine, based on
the facts and circumstances of the claims and misconduct at issue in the potential related action
(among other factors), whether the Commission’s whistleblower program or the alternative
whistleblower program has the more “direct or relevant connection to the [non-Commission]
action.”8
 If the Commission determines that the other program has the more direct or relevant
connection, the Commission will not deem the action a related action. Any award to be made on
the action must come from the other whistleblower program.
The second rule that is the subject of this proposing release is Rule 21F-6, which
concerns the Commission’s discretion to apply award factors and set award amounts. Before the
2020 Amendments, the rule text (with the exception of Rule 21F-6(a)(3)) did not explicitly
address whether the Commission could consider the potential dollar amount of an award when
setting awards; rather, the rule text generally referred to setting awards as a percentage of the
monetary sanctions recovered.9
 The 2020 Amendments added language to Rule 21F-6 stating

(17 CFR 240.21F-1 through 240.21F-18).
6 Whistleblower Program Rules, Release No. 34-89963, 85 FR 70898 (Sept. 23, 2020) (17 CFR
240.21F-1 through 17 CFR 240.21F-18).
7 These amendments included a new rule 17 CFR 240.21F-18.
8 See Rule 21F-3(b)(3)(i) through (ii).
9 See Proposing Release, 83 FR 34704.
that the Commission has discretion to consider the dollar amount of a potential award when
making an award determination.
10
B. Overview of the Proposed Rules
The Commission is considering further revising Rule 21F-3(b)(3) and Rule 21F-6, as
well as making some related conforming modifications to Rules 21F-10 and 21F-11 and
technical amendments to Rule 21F-4(c) and Rule 21F-8(e). These proposed rule changes are
being offered for public comment to help ensure that eligible, meritorious whistleblowers are
appropriately rewarded for their efforts and that our rules do not inadvertently create
disincentives to reporting potential securities-law violations to the Commission.
11 The
Commission anticipates that all of the proposed rule changes, if adopted, would apply to all new
whistleblower award applications filed after the effective date of the amended final rules, as well
as all whistleblower award applications that are pending and have not been the subject of a final
order of the Commission by the effective date.
1. Allowing awards for related actions where an alternative award program could yield
an award that is meaningfully lower than the Commission’s whistleblower program would allow.
The Commission is proposing to amend Rule 21F-3(b)(3) to revise the scope of potential related
actions (i.e., the non-Commission actions) that could be covered by the SEC’s whistleblower
program in situations where another award program might also apply to that same action.
 10 See Adopting Release, 85 FR 70910 (“To clarify the Commission’s discretionary authority, we
are modifying Rule 21F-6 to state that the Commission may consider the factors, and only the
factors set forth in in Rule 21F-6, in relation to the facts and circumstances of each case in
setting the dollar or percentage amount of the award. This new language, by expressly referring
to setting the dollar or percentage amount of the award, makes clear that the Commission and the
Claims Review Staff (CRS) may, in applying the Award Factors specified in Rule 21F-6(a) and
(b) and setting the Award Amount, consider the potential dollar amount that corresponds to the
application of any of the factors.”) (internal footnotes omitted).
11 In anticipation of the current proposal, the Commission released a statement on August 5,
2021, that identifies procedures that are available to whistleblowers with claims pending
while the current rulemaking is ongoing. Release No. 34-81207 (Aug. 5, 2021), available at
https://www.sec.gov/rules/policy/2021/34-92565.pdf.
Currently, Rule 21F-3(b)(3) provides that if another award program might apply to an action,
then the Commission will deem the action a potential related action (and process the application
further to determine if an award is appropriate) only if the SEC’s whistleblower program has the
“more direct or relevant connection” to the action (relative to the other program’s connection to
the action).12 Under the proposed amendments to Rule 21F-3(b)(3) (see Part II(A)(1) below), if
a claimant files a related-action award application, and the alternative award program is not
comparable, either because the statutory award range is more limited, or because awards are
subject to an award cap (and the non-Commission action otherwise satisfies the criteria in Rule
21F-3(b)(1)), the Commission would treat the non-Commission action as a related action
covered by the SEC’s program (assuming the other criteria of Rule 21F-3(b) are met) regardless
of whether the alternative award program has a more direct or relevant connection to the
action.
13 The Comparability Approach would also provide, however, that the Commission
would deem a matter eligible for related-action status without regard to which program has the
more direct and relevant connection to the action, if the maximum award in the related action
would not exceed $5 million. (As discussed in Part II(A)(1)-(2), the Commission is also
requesting public comment on several other alternative approaches, including an option that
would allow a meritorious whistleblower to decide whether to receive a related-action award
from the Commission or the authority administering the other award program; the whistleblower
would not be required to select which program to receive the award from until both programs
had determined the award amount they would pay.)
 12 Under Rule 21F-3(b)(3) as currently drafted, if the Commission fails to find that its program
has the more direct or relevant connection to the action, then the Commission will deny the
related-action award claim. The claimant is then left to pursue any claim for a whistleblower
award with the other award program.
13 See, e.g., 12 U.S.C. 4205(d)(1) (establishing a whistleblower award program in connection
with the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 1989, but capping
awards at $1.6 million).
2. Clarifying the Commission’s use of discretion to consider dollar amounts when
determining awards. The Commission is also proposing for public comment a new paragraph
(d) to Rule 21F-6, which would affirm the Commission’s statutory authority to consider the
dollar amount of a potential award when determining the award amount, but clarifies that the
Commission may exercise its discretion to use that authority for the limited purpose of increasing
the award amount and may not use it for the purpose of decreasing an award (either when
applying the award factors under Rule 21F-6(b) or otherwise).
3. Conforming and technical amendments. In addition to the above substantive
amendments, the Commission is proposing minor modifications to Exchange Act Rules 21F-10
and 21F-11 so that those rules conform to the proposed changes discussed above.
14 Further, the
Commission is proposing technical revisions to Rule 21F-4(c) and to Rule 21F-8 to correct errors
in the rule text.
II. Discussion of Proposed Amendments
A. Proposed Amendment to Exchange Act Rule 21F-3(b) defining a
“comparable” whistleblower award program for related actions
Under Exchange Act Section 21F(b), a whistleblower who obtains an award based on a
Commission covered action also may be eligible for an award based on monetary sanctions that
are collected in a related action. Exchange Act Section 21F(a)(5) and Exchange Act Rule 21F3(b)(1) provide that a related action is a judicial or administrative action that is:
(i) Brought by DOJ, an appropriate regulatory authority (as defined in Exchange Act
Rule 21F-4(g)), a self-regulatory organization (as defined in Exchange Act Rule 21F-4(h)), or a
state attorney general in a criminal case;
 14 See infra notes 24 and 57.
(ii) Based on the same original information that the whistleblower voluntarily
provided both to the Commission and to the authority or entity that brought the related action;15
and
(iii) Resolved in favor of the authority or entity that brought the action, and the
whistleblower’s information led to the successful resolution.16
In September 2020, the Commission adopted a new Exchange Act Rule 21F-3(b)(3) to
address situations where both the Commission’s whistleblower program and at least one other,
separate whistleblower award program might apply (hereinafter “the Multiple-Recovery
Rule”).17 As the Commission explained, the potential for another whistleblower award program
to apply to a potential related action—and the accompanying risk of multiple recoveries—had
become increasingly apparent over the course of the Commission’s decade of experience
implementing and administering the award program.18
The Multiple-Recovery Rule authorizes the Commission to pay an award on an action
potentially covered by a second award program only if the Commission determines that the
SEC’s whistleblower program has a more direct or relevant connection to the action than the
other award program. To assess whether a potential related action has a more “direct or
 15 A matter will qualify as a related action even if the whistleblower did not provide the original
information to the other authority or entity if the Commission itself provided the whistleblower’s
original information to the authority or entity. Cf. 17 CFR 240.21F-7(a)(2) (Rule 21F-7(a)(2)).
16 Exchange Act Rule 21F-3(b)(2) provides that essentially the same criteria that are used to
assess whether a whistleblower should receive an award in connection with a Commission
covered action will be applied to determine whether the whistleblower should also receive an
award in connection with the potential related action.
17 The Commission stated that the purpose of Rule 21F-3(b)(3) was to prevent multiple
recoveries, see Adopting Release, 85 FR 70908, and cited as the basis for adopting such rules the
provision in Exchange Act Section 21F(b)(1) that states awards are to be made based on
“regulations prescribed by the Commission,” the specific rulemaking authority of Exchange Act
Section 21F(j) to issue rules governing the whistleblower program, and the Commission’s
general rulemaking authority in Exchange Act Section 23(a), see id. at 70902 & n.20.
18 See id. at 70908.
relevant” connection to the SEC’s program or the other potentially applicable program, the
Multiple-Recovery Rule provides that the Commission will consider: (i) the relative extent to
which the misconduct charged in the potential related action implicates the public policy
interests underlying the federal securities laws (such as investor protection) rather than other
law-enforcement or regulatory interests; (ii) the degree to which the monetary sanctions imposed
in the potential related action are attributable to conduct that also underlies the federal securities
law violations that were the subject of the Commission’s covered action; and (iii) whether the
potential related action involves state-law claims, as well as the extent to which the state may
have a whistleblower award program that potentially applies to that type of law-enforcement
action.
Another provision of the Multiple-Recovery Rule directs that if a related-action claimant
has already received an award from another program, that claimant will not receive an award
from the Commission. Relatedly, the Multiple-Recovery Rule provides that if a related-action
claimant was denied an award from the other program, the claimant will not be able to readjudicate any fact decided against him or her by the other program. And if the Commission
decides that the SEC’s whistleblower program has the more direct or relevant connection to the
potential related action, the Multiple-Recovery Rule provides that no payment will be made on
the award unless the claimant promptly and irrevocably waives any claim to an award from the
other program.
In adding the Multiple-Recovery Rule to Exchange Act Rule 21F-3(b), the Commission
explained that it was “codif[ying] the approach the Commission has previously taken where
another award program is available in connection with an action for which a related-action award
is sought.”19 Further, the Commission explained that permitting multiple recoveries on the same
related action could be viewed as inconsistent with congressional intent in two respects. First, it
 19 Id.
could result in a whistleblower recovering in excess of the 30 percent ceiling that Congress has
established for federal whistleblower award programs in the modern era.20 Second, the relatedaction component of the SEC’s Whistleblower Program is structured under Section 21F of the
Exchange Act as a supplemental component of the program. If the Commission is able to bring a
successful covered action based on the whistleblower’s original information, then the
whistleblower is given an opportunity to obtain additional financial rewards for the ancillary
recoveries that may be collected in a related action based on that same original information. But
the Commission explained that neither the text nor the legislative history of Section 21F
indicated that Congress intended this ancillary component of the SEC’s whistleblower program
to displace or otherwise operate as an alternative to a more directly relevant award program that
may be specifically tailored to apply to a specific type or class of actions. The Commission also
observed that in situations where another program would apply, the other award program should
provide a sufficient financial incentive to encourage individuals to report misconduct without the
need for any additional incentive from the related-action component of the Commission’s
whistleblower program.21
Since the Multiple-Recovery Rule was adopted, the Commission has received (or
otherwise learned of the potential for) a number of whistleblower award applications involving
potential related actions that implicate (or may implicate) at least one other award program. Of
particular significance, some of these recent matters concern the whistleblower award program
that is administered in connection with the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery and
Enforcement Act of 1989 (“FIRREA”), which has a statutory cap of only $1.6 million (“FIRREA
 20 The Commission further explained that it was unaware of any time in the modern era in which
legislation had authorized the federal government to share with a whistleblower more than 30
percent of its monetary recovery from a successful action.
21 See 85 FR 70909.
awards program”).
22 As suggested above, an important consideration underlying the adoption of
the Multiple-Recovery Rule was that—even with the Commission’s determination not to pay on
potential related actions that have a more direct or relevant connection to an alternative award
program—the adoption of the Multiple-Recovery rule would not appreciably impact a potential
whistleblower’s financial incentive to come forward. As the Commission explained, this is
because potential “whistleblowers would still stand to receive an award” from the Commission
on the covered action and from the other program on the potential related action.
23 This
assumption may not be justified, however, under limited circumstances in which an alternate
whistleblower program provides significantly fewer financial incentives than the Commission’s
program. This seems most likely where the other award program has either a much lower award
range than the Commission’s program or has an absolute dollar ceiling for all awards.
Relatedly, we are concerned that the Multiple-Recovery Rule as currently structured
creates a risk that two otherwise similarly situated meritorious whistleblowers whose tips led to
comparably successful Commission and related actions would receive meaningfully different
awards based solely on the award program to which the actions in question were more directly
related or relevant. This potential for disparate treatment seems needlessly unfair given that the
potential disparate results are not compelled by the statute, would not be connected to any
relevant differences in either the claimants’ own efforts or the facts of the underlying related
actions (such as the amounts collected, which are relevant to calculating the money paid to
whistleblowers under Section 21F(b) of the Exchange Act), and would not be grounded in any
obvious SEC policy goals or programmatic considerations.
 22 See Attorney General Holder’s Remarks on Financial Fraud Prosecutions at NYU School of
Law (Sept. 17, 2014) (referring to this $1.6 million cap as a “paltry sum” that “is unlikely to
induce an employee to risk his or her lucrative career in the financial sector” by reporting
financial crimes).
23 See 85 FR 70908.
Based on the foregoing concerns, the Commission is offering for public comment several
proposals to change Rule 21F-3(b)(3). The principal proposal being offered is the
“Comparability Approach” (see Part II(A)(1) below). The Comparability Approach would retain
the current rule but would make certain narrowly tailored amendments to address the fairness
concerns identified above. The Comparability Approach would also allow the Commission to
deem a matter eligible for related-action status in any case in which the maximum award that the
Commission could pay on that action would not exceed $5 million, without assessing which of
the two comparable whistleblower programs had the more direct and relevant connection to the
action.
Another alternative being offered for public comment is the “Whistleblower’s Choice
Option” (see Part II(A)(2) below). It would involve a repeal of current Rule 21F-3(b)(3) in
favor of an approach that would no longer permit the Commission the exclusive authority to
forgo processing an otherwise meritorious award claim simply because another award program
may have a more direct or relevant connection to the underlying action.24
Finally, the Commission is offering for public comment the “Offset Approach” and the
“Topping Off Approach” (see Part II(A)(3) below). Under the Offset Approach, Rule 21F3(b)(3) would be repealed in its entirety in favor of a rule that would allow the Commission to
make an award irrespective of the potential that another award program might apply, but to
prevent a double recovery the Commission would offset from the Commission’s award any
amount that other program paid on the action. Under the Topping-Off Approach, the current
 24 The Commission intends to make a clarifying amendment to Exchange Act Rule 21F-11(c) so
that it states that the Office of the Whistleblower is authorized to contact the agency or entity
administering an alternative award program to ensure that the related-action award claimant has
fully complied with the terms of Exchange Act Rule 21F-3(b)(3) when a second, alternative
award program is implicated by an underlying action. If the Commission is ultimately unable to
receive the information that it needs to ensure to its satisfaction that the claimant has fully
complied with Rule 21F-3(b)(3), this can be a basis for denying the award claim. The
authorization that would be expressly added to Rule 21F-11(c) by the proposed amendment
follows presently from the operation of existing Rule 21F-3(b)(3) and the proposed amendment
would merely confirm that authority.
Rule 21F-3(b)(3) framework would be retained but the Commission would be granted the
discretion to “top off” a covered-action award—that is, increase the award amount on the
Commission’s own covered action (up to a total award of 30 percent)—if the Commission, in its
discretion, concludes that the other whistleblower program’s award for the non-SEC action was
inadequate.
1. The Comparability Approach
The Comparability Approach primarily focuses on situations where the maximum
potential award that the alternative award program could authorize for an action would be an
amount meaningfully lower than the maximum related-action award the Commission could grant
(i.e., 30 percent “in total, of what has been collected of the monetary sanctions imposed”) either
because the program involves a different award range or because it imposes a statutory award
cap.
25 An example of an award program that lacks a range comparable to the Commission’s
program is the Indiana securities-law whistleblower award program; under the Indiana program,
 25 The proposed rule would also provide that a program would not be deemed comparable if
awards under that program are entirely discretionary. Our own experience with a discretionary
award program prior to the enactment of Exchange Act Section 21F’s mandatory award program
leads us to have significant concerns that discretionary programs may not have the same
programmatic importance to agencies, and may not be administered with the same rigor, as
mandatory award programs. See Office of the Inspector General, Assessment of the SEC’s
Bounty Program, Report No. 474 (March 29, 2009), at 4-5, available at
www.sec.gov/about/offices/oig/reports/audits/2010/474.pdf (stating that the Commission made
five awards totaling less than $160,000 over the 20-year period from 1989 until 2009 under its
former insider-trading “bounty program” for which “bounty determinations, including whether,
to whom, or in what amount to make payments, [were] within the sole discretion of the SEC”).
That prior experience also suggests to us that discretionary programs may garner lower levels of
interest from the public because of the additional uncertainty of receiving an award. See id.
(explaining that the “Commission ha[d] not received a large number of applications from
individuals seeking a bounty” and that the program was “not widely recognized inside or outside
the Commission”). Together these factors may substantially reduce the willingness of
whistleblowers to blow the whistle. See Letter from Kohn, Kohn & Colapinto, LLP, Comment
offered in connection with Proposing Release No. 34-83557 regarding Related Actions and
Proposed Rule 21F-3(b)(4) (Sept. 10, 2020), available at https://www.sec.gov/comments/s7-16-
18/s71618-7797952-223596.pdf (stating that discretionary award programs do “not meet the
same standards” that Exchange Act Section 21F establishes). To forestall this risk, we think it
appropriate to deem discretionary programs presumptively lacking sufficient comparability to
our own program for purposes of Proposed Rule 21F-3(b)(3).
whistleblower awards may not exceed 10 percent of the money collected in a state securities-law
enforcement action.26 Examples of award programs that have low statutory caps are the
FIRREA award program,
27 which has a $1.6 million cap,28 and the program administered in
connection with the Major Frauds Act, which has a cap of $250,000.
29
The Comparability Approach would address situations involving similar low award caps
by generally excluding them from the Multiple-Recovery Rule.
30 Specifically, under the
Comparability Approach, the Multiple-Recovery Rule would not apply if the maximum potential
award that the other program could grant in connection with a related action would be
meaningfully lower than the maximum amount the Commission could award to that
whistleblower on that same action.31 To implement this modification, the opening sentence of
 26 See Indiana Code 23-19-7-1 et seq.
27 FIRREA authorizes DOJ to sue for civil penalties when a person engages in certain criminal
conduct, including mail, wire, and bank fraud. A court may impose penalties up to $1 million
per violation or $5 million for a continuing violation. 12 U.S.C. 1833a(b)(1) and (2). Further, a
court may award greater penalties depending on the amount of the violator’s gain or victims’
losses that are connected to the FIRREA violations. Id. at 1833a(b)(3) (providing that a court
may impose higher pecuniary penalties if either the amount of the wrongdoer’s pecuniary gain
from the FIRREA violation or the amount of the pecuniary loss to a victim exceeds the penalty
amounts specified in the statute, although any penalty may not exceed the total amount of the
wrongdoer’s gains or the victims’ losses).
28 Under the FIRREA award program a whistleblower is entitled to between 20 percent and 30
percent of the first $1 million recovered pursuant to the execution of a judgment, order, or
settlement, between 10 percent and 20 percent of the next $4 million recovered, and between 5
percent and 10 percent of the next $5 million recovered. Id. at 4205(d)(1)(A)(i). Thus, awards
under this program are effectively capped at $1.6 million (i.e., 30 percent of $1 million
[$300,000] plus 20 percent of the next $4 million [$800,000], plus 10 percent of the next $5
million [$500,000] but nothing beyond that). Id. at 4205(d)(2).
29 18 U.S.C. 1031(g).
30 The FIRREA award program and the Major Fraud Act award program are discretionary, and
thus would be excluded under the Comparability Approach for this additional reason, see supra
note 25. As a result, the low-award caps that those programs establish are referenced here purely
for illustrative purposes.
31 In assessing comparability, the Commission intends to compare the total amount that the other
award program could award to all eligible whistleblowers for the potential related action to the
total amount that the Commission’s award program could make to those individuals based on
Rule 21F-3(b)(3) would be amended to provide that the rule does not apply unless the other
whistleblower program is a “comparable whistleblower program.”32 “Comparable whistleblower
program” would be defined in a new paragraph (b)(3)(iv)(A) of Rule 21F-3 to mean an award
program that does not have an award range or award cap that would restrict the total maximum
potential award from that program to an amount that is meaningfully lower than the maximum
potential award to all eligible claimants (in dollar terms) that the Commission could make on the
particular action.33 Taken together, these proposed amendments if adopted would mean that
when the Commission determines that another award program fails to qualify as a “comparable
award program,” Rule 21F-3(b)(3) would not apply and could not be used as a basis for denying
an award on the potential related action.34
In addition, the Comparability Approach would provide that, after determining that the
two programs are comparable, the Commission would deem a matter eligible for related-action

that same potential related action.
32 The words “another whistleblower program” in the opening sentence of Rule 21F-3(b)(3)
would be replaced with “comparable whistleblower program.”
33 As discussed supra in note 25, an award program would not be comparable if it were
discretionary instead of mandatory. To effectuate this, new paragraph (b)(3)(iv)(A) would also
provide that an award program is not comparable if the authority or entity administering the
other program possesses sole discretion to deny an award notwithstanding the fact that a
whistleblower otherwise satisfies the established eligibility requirements and award criteria.
34 The Commission has not proposed to include eligibility criteria or award conditions in the
assessment of an award program’s comparability to the Commission’s. This is because other
authorities that are administering whistleblower programs may shape those programs through
eligibility criteria and award conditions that reflect each agency’s own policy choices (or in some
instances Congress’s policy choices), just as many of the Commission’s own eligibility criteria
and award conditions reflect important policy considerations. But the Commission also
recognizes that there could be some instances where the lack of comparability between the
eligibility criteria and award conditions of the Commission’s whistleblower program and those
of another agency’s whistleblower program could create an undue burden or significant hardship
to the claimant. When these instances arise, the Commission could employ its discretionary
waiver authority under Section 36(a) of the Exchange Act to include the related action within the
scope of the Commission’s award program if the particular facts and circumstances warrant
doing so. The flexibility that Section 36(a) provides seems particularly well suited in these
instances given the myriad and varied competing interests that may be implicated.
status without regard to which program has the more direct and relevant connection to the action
if the maximum award the Commission could have to pay in the related action would not exceed
$5 million.35 This condition would be satisfied in any case where 30 percent of the monetary
sanctions ordered to be collected by the other agency is $5 million or less; if so, then the action
would be eligible to qualify as a related action under the Commission’s program. Similar to
what the Commission explained when in 2020 it adopted the $5 million award presumption in
Rule 21F-6(c), we believe that permitting an action to automatically qualify as a related action
under these circumstances would help save whistleblowers time and effort, as well as
Commission staff. Whistleblowers who must file an award application with another wholly
unrelated program are likely to incur additional burdens in doing so, including familiarizing
themselves with any potentially applicable rules. When the maximum award amount based on
the monetary sanctions paid out in the action would not exceed $5 million, we think it is
reasonable to allow the whistleblower to pursue any related-action claim with the Commission
(via a process with which the whistleblower will be familiar given the whistleblower’s previous
filing of a covered-action award). Additionally, because the Comparability Approach would
require Commission resources to assess award comparability in each related-action claim that
potentially implicates an alternative award program, the $5 million threshold would help
promote the timely administration and efficiency of the award process.
We do not think this $5 million threshold would impose an undue strain on the staff to
process a related-action award to a final order, nor do we think it will pose risks to the solvency
 35 The Commission has chosen to base the $5 million threshold on the maximum potential award
that the Commission could be required to pay, rather than rely on the monetary sanctions that
have been collected and are likely to be collected in the future. Our experience demonstrates that
we often do not have the same visibility into the likelihood of collecting an award in another
agency’s action that we do in the context of our own SEC actions, particularly given that a
determination would potentially be required prior to the exhaustion of the other agency’s
collection efforts. Therefore, for purposes of administrative efficiency, we believe it is
appropriate to use an objective reference point which will be available at the time the
Commission is determining whether to grant a related-action award.
of the IPF. In order for a whistleblower to obtain the benefit of this new $5 million threshold
provision, however, the whistleblower will need to make an irrevocable waiver of any claim to
an award from the other program and otherwise comply with the other procedural obligations
that would be imposed by amended Rule 21F-3(b)(3).
Below is a decision tree that outlines how the Commission would apply the
Comparability Approach described above:
Step 1. Determine whether another whistleblower program that might apply to a
potential related (non-SEC) action for which a claimant is seeking an award.
• If yes, continue to step 2.
• If no, the matter would be treated as a potential related action and the
Commission would process the claimant’s award application against the
general award criteria and eligibility requirements of the whistleblower rules.
Step 2. If there is another program that applies to the potential related action, determine
whether it is a “comparable award program.”36
• If the other award program is comparable, proceed to step 3.
• If the other program is not comparable, the matter would be treated as a
potential related action and the Commission would process the claimant’s
award application against the general award criteria and eligibility
requirements of the whistleblower rules.
 36 As proposed, a “comparable award program” would be a whistleblower award program
administered by an authority or entity other than the SEC: (i) that “does not have an award range
that could operate in a particular action to yield an award for a claimant that is meaningfully
lower (when assessed against the maximum and minimum potential awards that program would
allow) than the award range that the Commission’s program could yield (i.e., 10 to 30 percent of
collected monetary sanctions)”; (ii) that “does not have a cap that could operate in a particular
action to yield an award for a claimant that is meaningfully lower than the maximum award the
Commission could grant for the action (i.e., 30 percent of collected monetary sanctions in the
related action)”; and (iii) in which the authority or entity administering the program does not
have discretion to “deny an award notwithstanding the fact that a whistleblower otherwise
satisfies the established eligibility requirements and award criteria.”
Step 3. If the program is comparable, then determine whether either: (1) the absolute
maximum payout the Commission could make on the potential related action is $5
million or less (i.e., 30 percent of the monetary sanctions ordered is $5 million or less); or
(2) the SEC’s award program has the more direct or relevant connection to the action
(relative to the other program) based on the facts and circumstances of the action.
• If the answer to both (1) and (2) in step 3 is “no,” then the matter is not a
related action.
• If the answer to (1) and/or (2) in step 3 is “yes,” the matter would be treated
as a potential related action and the Commission would process the claimant’s
award application against the general award criteria and eligibility
requirements of the whistleblower rules.
Beyond the proposed changes discussed above, Rule 21F-3 would be revised to include a
new paragraph (b)(3)(iv)(B) providing that the Commission will make a determination about
comparability on a case-by-case basis. Further, a new paragraph (b)(3)(iv)(C) would be added to
Rule 21F-3 to state that if the Commission grants an award on a related-action application that
involves an alternative program that is not comparable, the claimant must, within 60 calendar
days of receiving notice of the award, make an irrevocable waiver of any claim to an award from
the other program.
Relatedly, a new paragraph (b)(3)(iv)(D) would be added to Rule 21F-3 to afford the
Commission robust authority to ensure that an irrevocable waiver has been made. New
paragraph (3)(b)(iv)(D) would make clear that a claimant whose related-action award application
is subject to the provisions of Rule 21F-3 has the affirmative obligation to demonstrate to the
satisfaction of the Commission that the claimant has complied with the terms and conditions of
the proposed rule regarding an irrevocable waiver. Proposed paragraph (b)(3)(iv)(D) would also
amend Rule 21F-3 to provide that a claimant must take all steps necessary to authorize the
administrators of the other award program to confirm to staff in the Office of the Whistleblower
(or in writing to the claimant or the Commission) that an irrevocable waiver has been made
Further, a new paragraph (b)(3)(v) would be added to Rule 21F-3 to require a claimant to
promptly notify the Office of the Whistleblower that they are seeking or have sought an award
for a potential related action from another award program.37 And a paragraph (b)(3)(vi) would
be added to advise claimants that the failure to comply with any of the conditions or
requirements of an amended Rule 21F-3(b)(3) “may” result in the Commission deeming the
claimant ineligible for the related action at issue.
Finally, the Commission contemplates that the Comparability Approach would apply as
follows in situations where two or more whistleblowers who were not acting jointly contributed
to the success of a related action.38 If the Commission determined that the other agency’s award
program was not comparable or that the maximum award payable would not exceed $5 million,
each whistleblower would be able to determine separately whether to proceed under the
Commission’s program or the other award program. Further, as is the case with all related-
 37 In addition to the changes discussed above, Rule 21F-3(b)(3)(iii) would be amended so that the
existing reference to a “prompt, irrevocable waiver” specifies that the waiver must be made
within 60 calendar days of the claimant receiving notice of the Commission’s award
determination. This change would ensure that the timing for an irrevocable waiver is consistent
throughout Rule 21F-3(b)(3). Further, certain stylistic and clarifying modifications would be
made to the existing three sentences of Rule 21F-3(b)(3)(iii), and each of these revised sentences
would be broken out into new paragraphs (b)(3)(iii)(A) through (C). Finally, the Commission is
proposing to revise the first sentence of Rule 21F-3(b)(3)(iii). In its current form, that sentence
provides that the Commission will not issue an award determination for a potential related action
if another program has already issued an award determination to the claimant based on that
action. The Commission is proposing to replace that sentence with a new paragraph
(b)(3)(iii)(A) that would provide that the Commission’s ability to discontinue processing a
claimant’s related-action award application is triggered only by the claimant’s receipt of any
payment from the other program. This modification would strike a better balance in terms of
fairness to claimants because the receipt of a payment from the other program is an action that a
claimant has control over, but a claimant often will have little control over the processing time
for award applications.
38 See generally Section 21F(a)(6) of the Exchange Act (referring to “2 or more individuals
acting jointly” to provide information to the Commission).
action claims involving multiple, independent whistleblowers, each claimant’s application would
be assessed separately to determine whether the applicant qualifies for an award. And in
determining the appropriate award amount for any meritorious whistleblower who has elected to
proceed under our program, the award guidelines and considerations specified in 17 CFR
240.21F-5 (Rule 21F-5) and Rule 21F-6 would be used. In making its award assessment for any
whistleblower proceeding under the SEC’s program, the Commission may consider the relative
contributions of any whistleblower who opted to proceed under the alternative whistleblower
program rather than the Commission’s program. That said, in no event would the total award
paid out on a related action to all the meritorious whistleblowers who proceed under the
Commission’s program be less than 10 percent or greater than 30 percent of the total monetary
sanctions collected in the related action.39
2. Whistleblower’s Choice Option
As an alternative to either maintaining Rule 21F-3(b)(3) in its current form or modifying
it as described above (Comparability Approach), the Commission is requesting public comment
on a third approach, the Whistleblower’s Choice Option. Under this option, the Commission
would process an application for a related-action award without regard to whether a separate
award program might also apply to that action and irrespective of the whistleblower’s decision to
apply for an award from the other award program. Under the Whistleblower’s Choice Option,
the Commission would process the related-action award application just as it does for relatedaction applications that do not implicate separate award programs. And if both the Commission
and the other program grant an award, the Whistleblower’s Choice Option would allow the
whistleblower to determine which award to accept. For example, if a whistleblower received
separate award offers from the Commission and the Internal Revenue Service of the United
 39 Individuals who work jointly to provide the Commission with information are treated as a
single unit for assessing eligibility requirements, applying the award criteria, and determining a
specific award amount. Consistent with this approach, such individuals would have to determine
jointly whether to proceed under the Commission’s program or the other program.
States (“IRS”) on the same underlying action, the whistleblower would be able to consider both
programs’ award offers and select the higher offer.
A revised rule embodying the Whistleblower’s Choice Option would not permit the
claimant to receive payment on both awards; the meritorious whistleblower would need to make
a choice between the two awards. To ensure that the claimant would not receive payment on the
same action from both programs, this proposed alternative would require that a claimant identify
any award program other than the SEC’s to which the claimant had applied. Before receiving
any payment from the Commission on a related-action award, the claimant would be required to
irrevocably waive any award (or claim to an award) from the other program.
The critical feature of the Whistleblower’s Choice Option is that—unlike Rule 21F3(b)(3) in its current form or as modified to incorporate the Comparability Approach discussed
above—the claimant, not the Commission, would decide which program should pay any award
for a potential related action. The Commission would not account for the existence of another
potentially applicable award program in its assessment of the claimant’s award eligibility or
award offer. Rather, the Commission would consider the existence of the alternative award
program only at the payment stage, when it would be required to determine that the
whistleblower had irrevocably waived any and all rights to an award from the other program
before making the related-action award payment.
A potential benefit of the Whistleblower’s Choice Option is that the Commission and the
staff would no longer be required to determine which award program has a more “direct or
relevant” connection to the related action. Such determination can entail difficult assessments,
the resolution of which can increase overall award processing time.
There are countervailing considerations that—at least preliminarily—may militate in
favor of the Comparability Approach. First, under the Whistleblower’s Choice Option,
whistleblowers who apply to both programs would get two separate opportunities to demonstrate
that they should receive an award.40 This could produce a situation in which the Commission
and another agency made conflicting factual determinations after reviewing the same related
action. Separately, irrespective of whether another whistleblower award program has a more
direct or relevant connection to a matter upon which a whistleblower is seeking a related-action
award, a whistleblower could attempt to use the Commission’s Whistleblower Program to
overcome or avoid the failure to satisfy a significant eligibility requirement imposed by the other
program.
Second, the Whistleblower’s Choice Option could slow the overall processing of award
claims given the limited staff resources and the likelihood that this approach would increase the
staff’s administrative workload.41 Unlike either existing Rule 21F-3(b)(3) or the approach
contemplated by the Comparability Approach, the Whistleblower’s Choice Option could require
the Commission to fully process every application for a related-action award that also implicates
a second award program. Under Rule 21F-3(b)(3)’s existing framework, by contrast, the staff is
not required to work with officials at the authority or entity that handled the underlying action to
develop an administrative record regarding the claimant’s contributions to the other action.
Rather, under the existing framework, the Commission first analyzes the relative relationship of
each award program to the underlying action and, if it determines that the Commission’s award
program lacks the more direct or relevant connection to the action, it issues a final order on this
ground. This approach avoids the more time consuming and challenging work often involved
 40 The Commission has previously articulated a view that a whistleblower should not have
multiple bites at the adjudicatory apple. See, e.g., 83 FR 34711; 76 FR 34305.
41 Processing claims for related-action awards generally takes longer than the processing of
award claims for SEC covered actions. This is because Commission staff must often
communicate with, and obtain information from, staff from the other agency to determine
whether the claimant voluntarily provided new information that led to the other agency’s
enforcement action in order to determine if the claimant is eligible for a related-action award.
Commission staff must also obtain appropriate documentation from the other agency to confirm
collections in the related action and prepare an accompanying declaration from a staff attorney
memorializing for the record the relevant information regarding the related action.
with understanding the whistleblower’s contribution to the potential related action and assessing
whether the various conditions for an award have been satisfied. But if the Whistleblower’s
Choice Option were adopted to replace the current framework, it would displace the threshold
“direct or relevant” inquiry and the staff would generally process each related-action application
on the merits of the whistleblower’s claim to an award.
To implement the Whistleblower’s Choice Option, the current version of Rule 21F3(b)(3) would be repealed in its entirety and replaced by a new Rule 21F-3(b)(3) that would
specify the “terms and conditions” that would apply whenever at least one other award program
potentially applied to an action. Paragraph (b)(3)(i) of the revised rule would provide that if the
Commission determines that a claimant qualifies for an award for the related action, any
payment of that award by the Commission would be conditioned on that claimant making an
irrevocable waiver of any award or potential award from the other program. Paragraph (b)(3)(i)
would also prohibit the Commission from considering the existence of the alternative program or
the amount of that program’s award (if one has already been issued) in its own consideration of
the claimant’s right to a related-action award or its determination about the proper amount of any
award. Paragraph (b)(3)(ii) would provide that the Commission will not make an award on a
related action (or pay on an award if one has already been issued), if the claimant receives any
payment from the other award program. Paragraph (b)(3)(iii) would require that the claimant
make an irrevocable waiver of any award from the other program within 60 calendar days of the
later of either a claimant learning of the Commission’s award amount or a claimant learning of
the other program’s award offer. Further, new paragraph (b)(3)(iv) of Proposed Rule 21F3(b)(3) would provide that a claimant must comply with the irrevocable-waiver requirement of
paragraph (b)(3)(i) of the proposed revised rule.42 A proposed paragraph (b)(3)(v) of a revised
 42 Placing this affirmative obligation on claimants would help ensure that those subject to Rule
21F-3(b)(3) are adhering to the terms and requirements of the proposed rule. The proposed rule
language to achieve this would be nearly identical to comparable language in the Comparative
Approach detailed in Part II(A), supra. This rule text would provide that a claimant must take all
Rule 21F-3(b)(3) would impose an affirmative obligation on a claimant seeking a related-action
award to promptly notify the Office of the Whistleblower if that claimant was seeking an award
on that same action from another agency. A proposed paragraph (b)(3)(vi) would be added to
advise claimants that the failure to comply with any of the conditions or requirements of an
amended Rule 21F-3(b)(3) may result in the Commission deeming the claimant ineligible for the
related-action at issue.
Finally, the Commission contemplates that the Whistleblower’s Choice Approach would
apply as follows in situations where two or more whistleblowers who were not acting jointly
contributed to the success of a related action and subsequently filed award applications with the
Commission.43 As is the case with all related-action claims involving multiple, independent
whistleblowers, each claimant’s application will be assessed independently of any other’s to
determine whether the claimant qualifies for an award. Assuming there are two or more
meritorious whistleblowers, the Commission would, consistent with its general practice, include
within its award determinations consideration of each whistleblower’s relative contributions to
the success of the related action (with the total award no lower than 10 percent and no greater
than 30 percent of monetary sanctions collected in the related action). Each whistleblower
would then be able to determine whether to accept the Commission’s award determination or
instead waive the award determination and take an award from the other program.44 Thus, for

steps necessary to authorize the administrators of the other award program to confirm to staff in
the Office of the Whistleblower (or in writing to the claimant or the Commission) that an
irrevocable waiver has been made.
43 See generally Section 21F(a)(6) of the Exchange Act (referring to “2 or more individuals
acting jointly” to provide information to the Commission).
44 Individuals who work jointly to provide the Commission with information are treated as a
single unit for assessing eligibility requirements, applying the award criteria, and determining a
specific award amount. Consistent with this approach, under the Whistleblower’s Choice
Option, such individuals would have to determine jointly whether to accept an award from the
Commission or to waive the Commission’s award determination in favor of the other program’s
award determination.
example, if the Commission made an award of 10 percent to one whistleblower and 20 percent to
another, if the first whistleblower waived the SEC’s award and accepted an award from the other
program, the second would be free to accept the SEC’s 20 percent award.45
3. Other alternatives
In addition to the Comparability Approach and the Whistleblower’s Choice Option, there
are two other potential alternative approaches on which the Commission seeks comment: the
Offset Approach; and, the Topping-Off Approach. Both would involve replacing the MultipleRecovery Rule. Under both of these two approaches, a whistleblower would be permitted to
receive a payment from both the Commission’s program and another entity’s whistleblower
program; the Commission would not require whistleblowers to waive their claims to awards
from another program as a pre-condition to recovering under the Commission’s program.46 As
discussed below, both raise potential administrative issues that might counsel against their
adoption.
Under the Offset Approach, the Commission would determine the award percentage it
would otherwise pay on the related action but would offset from the Commission’s total award
payment the dollar amount the whistleblower receives for the related action from the other
 45 A decision by one whistleblower to reject an SEC award offer would not impact the award
amount offered or paid to any other whistleblowers. The award amounts offered to each
whistleblower would not depend on whether any of the whistleblowers opted to decline the
Commission’s award offer. This means, among other things, that the 30-percent presumption
established by Rule 21F-6(c) would not be applied to revise a whistleblower award upward as a
result of another whistleblower’s determination to decline an award from the Commission’s
program. Proceeding in this way is consistent with the provision of the proposed rule that states
the “Commission shall proceed to process the application without regard to the existence of the
alternative award program,” which includes any decisions the another whistleblower makes
about taking an award offered by that other program in lieu of an award offered by the
Commission’s program.
46 Similar to the Whistleblower’s Choice Option, these alternatives would begin with the
Commission determining its award percentage applicable to the related action, and would
proceed if an award from another program was lower than what would have been awarded by the
Commission on the related action had the other program not existed.
program’s award.47 Put differently, the Offset Approach would require the Commission to make
a related-action award even if another agency had already paid an award on that same action, but
the Commission could reduce the amount it paid on its related-action award by the amount that
the other agency paid. The fact that the whistleblower might receive an award from another
program would have no bearing on the Commission’s actual award determination; it would be
relevant only when the Commission offset the award amount at the time of payment.48
Under the Topping-Off Approach, the current Rule 21F-3(b)(3) framework would be
retained but the Commission would be granted the discretion to enhance or “top off” a coveredaction award—that is, increase the award amount on the Commission’s own covered action (up
to a total award amount of 30 percent)—if the Commission concluded that the other
whistleblower program’s award for the non-SEC action was inadequate for any reason. A
potential concern with this approach is that, as a practical matter, the Commission’s ability to
enhance or “top off” a covered-action award to provide a whistleblower relief from a deficient
award issued by another program for a non-SEC action would be limited in many instances. For
 47 The effect on the IPF from the “Offset Approach” would be difficult to assess with any
confidence. Relative to the Comparability Approach, the Offset Approach could potentially
increase the money paid from the IPF in some cases if a comparable program were to produce a
meaningfully smaller than expected award and, as a result, an offset payment. However, in other
instances, the Offset Approach could reduce the burden on the IPF, because the Commission
would potentially be sharing responsibility with another award program for that related action.
48 Pursuant to Exchange Act Section 21F(b), the Commission shall pay an award to one or more
meritorious whistleblowers of “not less than 10 percent, in total, of what has been collected of
the monetary sanctions imposed in the [Commission’s] action or related actions[.]” Under the
Offset Approach, it is possible that the Commission’s portion of the award payment could place
the Commission in the position of making a related-action award that is less than 10 percent of
the total amount collected. Alternatively, it could also result in a total reward to the claimant
(when combined with the payment from the other program) that exceeds 30 percent. As an
illustration, if another program makes a 22 percent award on a related action, and if the
Commission determines to provide an additional reward on top of the amount the other program
will pay, then the Commission would be presented with the following dilemma: If the
Commission’s award is 8 percent or less, there would appear to be a conflict with Section 21F’s
10 percent statutory minimum. But if the Commission makes an award greater than 8 percent,
the total payout would exceed the 30 percent statutory cap. For these reasons, the Commission
has not designated the Offset Approach as one of the principal approaches under consideration.
example, when the covered-action award already (i.e., prior to any enhancement to account for a
deficient award from the other program for the non-SEC action) is at or near the statutory
maximum 30 percent award authorized under Section 21F(b), the Commission would not have
the ability to grant a significant percentage enhancement. Similarly, if the monetary sanctions
collected in the Commission’s action are relatively small compared to the size of the related
action’s collected sanctions (e.g., a relatively small covered action involving $10 million in
collected sanctions versus a much larger non-SEC action involving $100 million in collected
sanctions), then the Commission’s ability to provide relief by topping off the covered action may
be limited because of the sheer size of the related-action relative to the Commission’s action.
Finally, both of these alternatives raise the concern that they would add significant delays
to the Commission’s ability to make timely award determinations whenever an action implicates
another award program. This is because (unlike the Comparability Approach or the
Whistleblower’s Choice Option) the Offset Approach and the Topping-Off Approach would
delay the Commission’s ability to pay the final award amount to a meritorious whistleblower
until after the other entity’s award process has been completed.
Request for Comment
1. Do any of the approaches discussed above implicate additional considerations that the
Commission has not addressed in this proposing release but that you believe should be factored
into the Commission’s deliberations relating to potential amendments to Rule 21F-3(b)(3)? For
example, should the proposals identify the potential consequences that might result if a claimant
fails to comply with the requirements of any amended rule?
2. The Commission outlines above how it contemplates dealing with instances involving
multiple whistleblowers under the Comparability Approach and the Whistleblower’s Choice
Option. If the Comparability Approach is adopted, is the Commission’s proposed approach for
addressing awards in the context of related actions involving multiple whistleblowers
appropriate? Similarly, if the Whistleblower’s Choice Option is adopted, is the Commission’s
proposed approach for addressing awards in the context of related actions involving multiple
whistleblowers appropriate? Please explain. Should the Commission consider alternative
approaches for dealing with related actions involving multiple whistleblowers under the
Comparability Approach and Whistleblower’s Choice Approach? Please explain and identify
any alternatives that you believe the Commission should consider.
3. Is the $5 million threshold proposed as part of the Comparability Approach the
appropriate figure? Should the threshold be higher or lower? Please explain.
4. The initial set of whistleblower program rules adopted in May 2011 included a nowrepealed version of Rule 21F-3(b)(3) that dealt only with the potential that a claimant could
receive awards for the same related action from the Commission and the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission (“CFTC”), whose new whistleblower program, like the SEC’s, was
authorized by the Dodd-Frank Act and includes a related-action supplemental component.
Under that original version of Rule 21F-3(b)(3), the Commission stated that it would not pay an
award on a related action if the CFTC had already made an award on that action, nor would the
Commission allow the whistleblower to re-adjudicate any factual issues decided against the
whistleblower as part of the CFTC’s final order denying an award.49 Should the Commission
reconsider this original version of Rule 21F-3(b)(3) instead of adopting one of the alternative
options proposed in this release? If so, please explain why and what revisions to the original
version might be appropriate.50
 49 The 2011 adopting release explained that False Claims Act qui-tam suits are legally excluded
from a related-action recovery under the Commission’s whistleblower program. See 76 FR
34305. This interpretation remains in effect and is not a subject of this proposing release or
otherwise opened for reconsideration as part of this ongoing rulemaking process. Id.
50 See Letter from Kohn, Kohn & Colapinto, LLP, Comment offered in connection with
Proposing Release No. 34-83557 regarding Related Actions and Proposed Rule 21F-3(b)(4)
(Sept. 10, 2020) (recommending that the Commission expand the 2011 version of Rule 21F3(b)(3) that “prohibit[ed] double awards under the [Commodity Exchange Act] to include other
similar whistleblower reward laws”).
5. Proposed Rule 21F-3(b)(3)(iii)(A) directs that the Commission shall not make a relatedaction award to a claimant (or any payment on a related-action award if the Commission has
already made an award determination) if the claimant has already received any payment from the
other program for that potential related action. Rather than cut off the potential for an award
payment from the SEC in this situation, should the Commission consider adopting in this limited
situation some form of an offset mechanism similar to the Offset Approach discussed above?
Please explain.
6. Instead of the current Rule 21F-3(b)(3) and the alternatives discussed above (including
the alternative referenced in the prior question and the alternatives discussed in Part II(A)(3)),
should the Commission consider a different approach, such as: (i) leaving the text of Rule 21F3(b)(3) unchanged; or (ii) adopting a hybrid approach that would implement the Whistleblower’s
Choice option below a maximum potential award threshold, and above that threshold retain the
current Rule 21F-3(b)(3) framework that considers which program has the more direct or
relevant connection to the action? Please identify the alternative approach that you support,
explain why you believe that approach should be adopted, and explain how the specific approach
you support should work.
7. As described above, the Comparability Approach would apply in any situation where
another award program (were it to apply) has an award range or an award cap that would yield an
award “meaningfully” lower than the amount the Commission’s program would likely offer (but
above a $5 million maximum award that might be paid by the Commission). As discussed, the
Comparability Approach would also apply where awards under another award program are
discretionary rather than mandatory. In assessing whether an award from another award program
(greater than the $5 million threshold) would be “meaningfully lower” than the maximum
amount that might be awarded under the Commission’s award program, should the Commission
establish a fixed dollar or percentage difference as an alternative to the “meaningfulness”
standard? If so, please explain why a uniformly applied fixed dollar or percentage amount would
be better. If possible, please also identify the dollar or percentage amount of the potential
difference that the Commission should use to determine that the other program’s award is not
meaningfully lower, and please explain why that dollar or percentage amount is appropriate.
8. If the Comparability Approach is adopted, should the Commission also incorporate
eligibility and award conditions into the definition of “comparable whistleblower program”?51
For example, should comparability include consideration of the absence of robust confidentiality
protections or anonymity provisions similar to those under which the Commission’s
whistleblower program operates?52 Are there other factors that the Commission should take into
account to determine if another whistleblower program is comparable to the Commission’s
award program? With respect to the foregoing, if you believe that additional factors should be
added to assess a program’s comparability, please identify those factors and explain why they
should be considered in determining whether another award program is comparable.
9. Both the Comparability Approach and the Whistleblower’s Choice Option would require
that a claimant irrevocably waive and promptly forgo an award from the other potentially
relevant award program. Should the Commission take additional steps to ensure that claimants
are put on notice of the potential consequences of falsely representing that they have waived an
award from the alternative program? If so, please explain why this is uniquely important in this
context and what approach the Commission should take (such as, for example, requiring
claimants to explicitly acknowledge that providing false information to the Commission could
constitute a violation of Section 1001 of Title 18 of the United States Code (and any other
applicable provisions))?
 51 See supra note 34 (explaining the Commission’s rationale for not including eligibility criteria
and award conditions in the assessment of the other award program’s comparability).
52 See, e.g., Section 21F(h)(2) (heightened confidentiality protections); Exchange Act Rule 21F7, 17 CFR 240.21F-7 (confidentiality and anonymity protections).
10. Are the time limits imposed by the Comparability Approach and Whistleblower’s Choice
Option appropriate? Should these time periods be longer or shorter and, if so, what would be
appropriate time periods? Please explain.
B. Proposed Amendment to Exchange Act Rule 21F-6 regarding size of award
Rule 21F-6 identifies the criteria that the Commission may consider when determining
the amount of an award.53 The 2020 Amendments added language to Rule 21F-6 clarifying that
it was within the Commission’s discretion to consider the dollar amount of an award when
making an award determination.54 Before this amendment, the rule (with one exception, see
infra footnote 58 and accompanying text) referred to the Commission making award
determinations by considering percentage adjustments to increase and decrease the award
 53 In deciding whether to increase the amount of an award, Rule 21F-6(a) identifies the following
relevant considerations: (1) “the significance of the information provided by a whistleblower to
the success of the Commission action or related action”; (2) “the degree of assistance provided
by the whistleblower and any legal representative of the whistleblower in the Commission action
or related action”; and (3) the “programmatic interest in deterring violations of the securities
laws by making awards to whistleblowers who provide information that leads to the successful
enforcement” of the securities laws. And in deciding whether to decrease the amount of an
award, Rule 21F-6(b) permits the Commission to consider: (1) the “culpability or involvement
of the whistleblower in matters associated” with the covered action or related action; (2)
“whether the whistleblower unreasonably delayed in reporting the suspected securities
violations”; and (3) “in cases where the whistleblower interacted with his or her entity’s internal
compliance or reporting system, whether the whistleblower undermined the integrity of such
system.”
54 See Rule 21F-6 (“In exercising its discretion to determine the appropriate award, the
Commission may consider the following factors (and only the following factors) in relation to
the facts and circumstances of each case in setting the dollar or percentage amount of the
award.”). The 2020 Amendments explicitly acknowledge the Commission’s discretion to
consider the dollar amount of a potential award when applying the award factors specified in
paragraphs (a) and (b) of Rule 21F-6. See, e.g., Adopting Release, 85 FR 70909-10 (“The
Commission has had and continues to have broad discretion in applying the Award Factors and
setting the Award Amount, including the discretion to consider and apply the Award Factors in
percentage terms, dollar terms or some combination thereof.”); id. at n.102 (“When applying the
award factors specified in Rule 21F-6 and determining the award dollar and percentage amounts
set forth in the preliminary determination, the award factors may be considered by the SEC staff
and the Commission in dollar terms, percentage terms or some combination thereof.”).
amount, and neither unambiguously provided that the Commission could consider dollar
amounts nor prohibited it from doing so when assessing the various award factors.
55
The Commission proposes a targeted revision to further clarify how it may use its
discretion to consider the dollar amount of a potential award when applying the award factors
specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of Rule 21F-6. Specifically, the Commission is proposing a
new paragraph (d) for Rule 21F-6 that would do two things. First, it would provide that the
Commission “shall not” use the dollar amount of a potential award when applying the factors
specified in paragraphs (a) and (b), or in any other way, to lower a potential award.
56 Second,
new paragraph (d) would provide that the Commission may consider the dollar amount of a
potential award for the limited purpose of increasing the award amount.57 Several factors
counsel in favor of this proposal.
First, the SEC’s ongoing experience with whistleblower awards has demonstrated that
the discretionary authority to decrease awards based on potential dollar size is unnecessary. In
the history of the Commission’s whistleblower program, to the extent that the Commission has
considered the dollar amount of an award as part of the award analysis under Rule 21F-6, the
 55 The Commission has previously explained that the statutory framework that Section 21F
establishes can be read to allow the Commission to consider the dollar amount of a potential
award. Proposing Release, 83 FR 34714 n.105. Indeed, the language in Section 21F refers to the
“amount of the award,” which affords the Commission discretion to set the awards based on a
consideration of the appropriate dollar amount that should be paid (provided that this dollar
amount is between 10 percent and 30 percent of the collected monetary sanctions). Id.
56 If Rule 21F-3(b)(3) were amended to adopt the Offset Approach or Topping-Off Approach
discussed above in Part II(A)(3), the Commission, when applying either of those approaches,
may need to consider the dollar amount of awards, and thus the Commission anticipates that any
amended Rule 21F-3(b)(3) adopting either of those approaches might require a corresponding
amendment to Rule 21F-6(d).
57 The Commission is also proposing to modify Rule 21F-10(e) and Rule 21F-11(e) to make
clear that, in applying the award factors specified in Rule 21F-6 and determining the award
dollar and percentage amounts set forth in the preliminary determination, the award factors may
be considered by the SEC staff and the Commission in dollar terms “subject to the limitations
imposed by Rule 21F-6(d).” The Commission is also proposing to revise the text of Rule 21F11(a) to improve its readability and clarity (with no substantive modification of the provision).
Commission has generally done so to increase the amount of an award in connection with
applying the “law enforcement interest” factor in Rule 21F-6(a)(3).
58 By contrast, the
Commission has not considered the dollar amount to lower any awards since the rule was
amended.
59
Second, it has been the Commission’s experience that large awards in particular
generate public interest and in so doing increases the instances of whistleblowers coming
forward to report securities-law violations.60 In this way, large awards directly serve the
 58 As the Commission explained in the 2020 Adopting Release, “the Commission’s longstanding interpretation of Rule 21F6(a)(3)—law enforcement interest—already specifically
references the Commission’s discretion to consider the monetary sanctions and the potential
Award Amount when assessing that factor[.]” See 85 FR 70910. See also 83 FR 34712; 76 FR
34331, 34366. Rule 21F-6(a)(3) allows the Commission to consider the degree to which a
potential award will “enhance[] the Commission’s ability to enforce the federal securities laws
and protect[] investors” and “encourage[] the submission of high quality information from
whistleblowers by appropriately rewarding” them. Rule 21F-6(a)(3)(i)-(ii).
59 And since that time, the Commission has granted some of the highest awards in the program’s
history, including two awards at or above $110 million, without any suggestion that the award
should be, or was being, lowered as a result of its dollar size. See Press Release, 2021-177,
SEC Surpasses $1 Billion in Awards to Whistleblowers with Two Awards Totaling $114 Million
(Sept. 15, 2021), available at https://www.sec.gov/news/press-release/2021-177
(“[W]histleblower’s $110 million award consists of an approximately $40 million award in
connection with an SEC case and an approximately $70 million award arising out of related
actions by another agency”); Press Release, SEC Issues Record $114 Million Whistleblower
Award (Oct. 22, 2020), available at https://www.sec.gov/news/press-release/2020-266 (“The
$114 million award consists of an approximately $52 million award in connection with the SEC
case and an approximately $62 million award arising out of the related actions by another
agency.”).
60 The Commission’s whistleblower program was enacted to incentivize individuals to submit
tips to the Commission with the ultimate goal of more effectively and efficiently detecting,
preventing, and addressing securities law violations. This goal is evident in the title of the
statutory provision. See Securities Whistleblower Incentives and Protection, 15 U.S.C. 78u-6
(emphasis added). Moreover, Section 21F(c)(1)(B)(i)(III) of the Exchange Act requires the
Commission to take “the programmatic interest in deterring violations of the securities laws by
making awards to whistleblowers who provide information that leads to the successful
enforcement of such laws.” See also Rule 21F-6(a)(3) (restating the “programmatic interest”
award factor).
purpose of the whistleblower program (and by extension the interests of the investing public) by
incentivizing whistleblowers to report violations to the Commission.61
Third, the Commission is concerned that discretionary authority to consider the dollar
amount of potential awards clarified in the 2020 Amendments could create uncertainty about,
and thereby decrease confidence in, the award process itself. The Commission’s internal awardreview process is thorough and robust. For example, award recommendations to the
Commission are based on the collective views of the members of the Commission’s Office of the
Whistleblower and Claims Review Staff (which has historically been composed of senior career
staff members in the Division of Enforcement), and those recommendations are separately
reviewed by Enforcement’s Office of Chief Counsel and the Commission’s Office of the General
Counsel before they are submitted to the Commission. But in order to ensure whistleblowers
feel safe providing information to the Commission, and because the Commission must comply
with statutory confidentiality protections to avoid disclosing the identity of whistleblowers, it
does not discuss the details of how that award-review process produces final award
determinations in individual cases.62 Indeed, publicly available award determination orders
often affirm that the Commission considered the Rule 21F-6 criteria without flagging specific
factual considerations or award factors on which the Commission relied, or revealing the actual
percentage awarded (instead, the award is generally presented as a dollar figure).63
 61 See Whistleblower Awards Process and Statistics, available at
https://www.sec.gov/page/whistleblower-100 million.
62 See 21F(h)(2) of the Exchange Act, 15 U.S.C. 78u-6(h)(2) (imposing heightened
confidentiality requirements in order to protect the identity of whistleblowers). Id. The SEC is
required to keep a whistleblower’s identity confidential unless and until it is required to be
disclosed to a defendant in a public proceeding or unless the SEC deems it necessary to share it
with certain other authorities (in which case those authorities must keep it confidential). Id.
63 The Commission’s long-standing general practice in public whistleblower award orders is to
describe awards in actual dollar amount, rather than percentages (which are generally redacted).
Adopting Release, 85 FR 70910. This practice has been followed for the common-sense reason
that actual dollar figures—not abstract percentages—are most likely to advance the
Because public information regarding how the Commission applies award factors in
practice is limited, the Commission perceives a risk that merely maintaining the authority to
lower awards based on the dollar amount of the award may create the misimpression that the
Commission is regularly exercising such authority—and this could in turn potentially deter
individuals from reporting misconduct.64 The proposed amendment should foreclose that risk by
expressly stating that the Commission may not consider the dollar amount of an award for the
purpose of potentially lowering the award amount.65
Request for Comment
11. Are there additional considerations that the Commission should assess in deciding
whether to adopt any changes to Rule 21F-6, including proposed Rule 21F-6(d)?

whistleblower award program’s goal of incentivizing potential whistleblowers. Id.
64 In reality, both the size and frequency of awards have increased since the 2020 Amendments.
See supra note 59 and accompanying text (noting that, since the 2020 Amendments, the
Commission has granted some of the highest awards in the program’s history, including two
awards at or above $110 million, without any suggestion that the award should be, or was
being, lowered as a result of its dollar size). In 2020, the program awarded approximately
$175 million to 39 individuals—at that time both the highest dollar amount and the highest
number of individuals awarded in a given fiscal year in the program’s history—triple the
number of individuals awarded in 2018, the next-highest fiscal year, when the Commission
awarded 13 individuals. See SEC 2020 REPORT ON WHISTLEBLOWER PROGRAM at 2, available
at https://www.sec.gov/files/2020 Annual Report_0.pdf. Likewise, in 2020, the Commission
received a 31 percent increase in tips from 2018, the second-highest tip year. Id. This trend
continued—and accelerated—through 2021. Indeed, the Commission made more whistleblower
awards in 2021 than in all prior years combined, awarding approximately $564 million to 108
individuals. See SEC 2021 REPORT ON WHISTLEBLOWER PROGRAM at 1, 10, available at
https://www.sec.gov/files/owb-2021-annual-report.pdf.
65 The proposed amendment would permit the Commission to increase the dollar amount of an
award when considering any of the positive award factors in Rule 21F-6(a). This authority does
not impact, and in fact is separate and distinct from, the maximum-award presumption that Rule
21F-6(c) establishes. See Adopting Release, 85 FR 70899 (“[W]ith a focus on increased
transparency, efficiency and clarity, we are adding a specific provision to Rule 21F-6 that will
create a presumption that, when (1) the statutory maximum authorized Award Amount is $5
million or less and (2) the negative Award Factors are not present, the Award Amount will be set
at the statutory maximum, subject to the Commission’s discretion to apply certain exclusions.”).
12. Are there other or different revisions to Rule 21F-6 that the Commission should consider
to clarify that the Commission will not lower an award based on the potential dollar amount of
the award? For example, should the Commission consider removing the reference to “dollar . . .
amount of the award” entirely from the introductory paragraph of Rule 21F-6? Please explain
why this approach or any other alternative approach should be adopted and explain how the
specific approach recommended would work.
13. Instead of completely eliminating the Commission’s ability to consider the dollar amount
of an award when assessing whether to lower a potential award, should the Commission retain
this authority for a subset of awards (e.g., for related-action awards, given that they are an
ancillary component of the program, or for awards where the whistleblower engaged in culpable
conduct or obstructed the Commission’s process in some fashion)? Please identify the approach
that you would follow and explain the basis for your recommendation if it differs from the
approach the Commission has proposed.
C. Proposed Technical Amendments to Rule 21F-4(c) and Rule 21F-8(e)66
Rule 21F-4(c) was adopted by the Commission in 2011 as part of the original set of
whistleblower program rules to list the three ways a whistleblower’s information can have “led
to” the success of an action.67 There is a scrivener’s error at the end of Rule 21F-4(c)(2) that the
Commission is proposing to correct to enhance the readability and grammatical consistency of
Rule 21F-4(c). Specifically, the Commission would insert a semicolon and the word “or” at the
end of Rule 21F-4(c)(2) to replace the period that is currently there.
Rule 21F-8(e) was adopted by the Commission in the 2020 whistleblower rule
amendments to authorize a permanent bar against any individual who submits three or more
 66 The Commission is not reopening any aspect of Rule 21F-4(c) or Rule 21F-8(e) for public
comment on other potential revisions, including potential substantive revisions, beyond the
technical revisions proposed herein.
67 See 76 FR 34365. See also id. at 34357 n.438.
award applications that are frivolous or lack a colorable connection between the tip and the
action.68 In this context, paragraph (e)(3) provides a whistleblower with notice and an
opportunity to withdraw up to three such award applications, which, if withdrawn, would not be
considered by the Commission in determining whether to exercise its authority to impose such a
permanent bar.69 Moreover, paragraph (e)(4) provides a whistleblower with notice and an
opportunity to withdraw all such frivolous or noncolorable award applications that were filed
before the effective date of the new permanent bar provisions.70
As adopted in 2020, the second sentence of Rule 21F-8(e)(4)(ii) states that the procedures
in Rule 21F-8(e)(3) shall apply to any award application that is pending as of the effective date
of the rule and that is determined to be a frivolous or noncolorable application. The sentence
was in error, as paragraphs (e)(3)(i) through (iii) affords claimants notice and an opportunity to
withdraw only three applications, whereas paragraph (e)(4) by its terms applies “to all award
applications pending as of the effective date of paragraph (e) of this section” and affords
claimants notice and an opportunity to withdraw all such pending award applications.71 Given
this scrivener’s error, the Commission is proposing a technical amendment to delete the second
sentence of Rule 21F-8(e)(4)(ii).
III. General Request for Public Comment
We request and encourage any interested person to submit comments on any aspect of the
proposed rule amendments, interpretations, or other items specified above, including the
 68 See Adopting Release, 85 FR 70920-22.
69 See id. at 70920.
70 See id. at 70921-22.
71 The discussion in the adopting release for the 2020 Amendments is silent about this sentence,
further indicating that it was a scrivener’s error. See id.
economic analysis contained below (especially if accompanied by supporting data and analysis
of the issues addressed therein).
Finally, other than the items specifically identified in this release, persons wishing to
comment are expressly advised that the Commission is not proposing any other changes to the
whistleblower program rules (i.e., 17 CFR 240.21F-1 through 240.21F-18 (Exchange Act Rules
21F-1 through 21F-18)), nor is the Commission otherwise reopening any of those rules for
comment.72
IV. Economic Analysis
The Commission is sensitive to the economic consequences of its rules, including the
benefits, costs, and effects on efficiency, competition, and capital formation. Section 23(a)(2)73
of the Exchange Act requires the Commission, in promulgating rules under the Exchange Act, to
consider the impact that any rule may have on competition and prohibits the Commission from
adopting any rule that would impose a burden on competition not necessary or appropriate in
furtherance of the purposes of the Exchange Act. Further, Section 3(f) of the Exchange Act74
requires the Commission, when engaging in rulemaking where it is required to consider or
determine whether an action is necessary or appropriate in the public interest, to consider, in
addition to the protection of investors, whether the action will promote efficiency, competition,
and capital formation.
This economic analysis concerns the proposed amendments to Exchange Act Rule 21F-3
and Rule 21F-6. As discussed above, the proposed amendments to Rule 21F-3(b)(3) would
allow awards for related actions if an alternative whistleblower program has an award range or
award cap that would restrict the maximum potential award from that other program to an
 72 See Proposing Release, 83 FR 34734.
73 15 U.S.C. 78w(a)(2).
74 15 U.S.C. 78c(f).
amount that is meaningfully lower than the maximum potential award that the Commission could
make. The proposed amendment to Rule 21F-6 would eliminate the Commission’s discretion to
consider the dollar amounts to reduce an award. Although the impact of the proposed
amendments is expected to be small, to the extent that there is an impact, the amendments could
increase the size of some whistleblower awards and therefore the incentives for whistleblowers
to submit tips.
The benefits and costs discussed below are difficult to quantify. For example, we do not
have a way of estimating quantitatively the extent to which the proposed rules could affect our
enforcement program by altering whistleblowing incentives. Similarly, we are unable to
quantify any costs (or benefit) to the whistleblower program’s IPF associated with the
Comparability Approach or the three other approaches discussed above for amending Rule 21F-
(b)(3). Therefore, the discussion of economic effects of the proposed amendments is qualitative
in nature.
A. Economic Baseline
To examine the potential economic effects of the amendments, we employ as a baseline
the set of rules that implement the SEC’s whistleblower program as amended in September
2020.
75 Over the past 10 years, the whistleblower program has been an important component of
the Commission’s efforts to detect wrongdoing and protect investors in the marketplace,
particularly where fraud is concealed or difficult to find. The program has received a high
number of submissions from whistleblowers and it has also produced substantial awards.76 Both
 75 Earlier this year, the Commission issued a statement identifying procedures that could be used
by whistleblower award program during an Interim Policy-Review Period. Release No. 34-
81207 (Aug. 5, 2021), available at https://www.sec.gov/rules/policy/2021/34-92565.pdf. These
procedures are considered in the economic baseline.
76 In fiscal year (FY) 2021, the Commission awarded approximately $564 million to 108
individuals—both the largest dollar amount and the largest number of individuals awarded in a
single fiscal year. The program was also very active in FY 2020, awarding approximately $175
million to 39 individuals. See supra note 59.
the number of submissions and the number and dollar amount of awards per year have increased
considerably since the program was initiated.77
Whistleblower programs, and the SEC’s whistleblower program in particular, have been
studied by economists who report findings consistent with award programs being effective at
contributing to the discovery of violations. For example, a recent publication reports that, among
other benefits, “[w]histleblower involvement [in the enforcement process] is associated with
higher monetary penalties for targeted firms and employees.”78 In addition, current working
papers report that the SEC’s whistleblower program deters aggressive (i.e., potentially
misleading) financial reporting79 and insider trading.80
B. Proposed Rules
1. Proposed Rule 21F-3(b)(3)
The proposed rule amendments may affect SEC whistleblower awards in cases where
there is a potential related action that could be covered by another whistleblower program.
 77 See SEC 2020 REPORT ON WHISTLEBLOWER PROGRAM, at 9-16; U.S. SEC. & EXCH. COMM’N,
DIV. OF ENF. 2020 ANN. REP., pp. 9-16 (November 2, 2020), available at
https://www.sec.gov/files/enforcement-annual-report-2020.pdf.
78 Andrew C. Call, et al., Whistleblowers and Outcomes of Financial Misrepresentation
Enforcement Actions, 56 J. ACCT. RES. 123, 126 (2018). See also Philip Berger, et al., Did the
Dodd-Frank Whistleblower Provision Deter Accounting Fraud? (Jan. 2021) (unpublished
manuscript) available at https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=3059231
(“[F]ind[ing] that exposure to Dodd-Frank reduces the likelihood of accounting fraud of
treatment firms by 17% relative to control firms.”); Alexander Dyck, et al., Who Blows the
Whistle on Corporate Fraud?, 65 J. FIN. 2213, 2215 (2010) (“[A] strong monetary incentive to
blow the whistle does motivate people with information to come forward.”).
79 See Christine Weidman & Chummei Zhu, Do the SEC Whistleblower Provisions of Dodd
Frank Deter Aggressive Financial Reporting (Feb. 24, 2020) (unpublished manuscript),
available at https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=3105521. See also Jaron H.
White, The Deterrent Effect of Employee Whistleblowing on Firms’ Financial Misreporting and
Tax Aggressiveness, 92 ACCT. REV., 247-80 (2017).
80 See Jacob Raleigh, The Deterrent Effect of Whistleblowing on Insider Trading (Sept. 29, 2021)
(unpublished manuscript), available at
https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=3672026.
Turning first to the Comparability Approach, it would authorize the Commission to make awards
in particular situations where, under the Multiple-Recovery Rule, another award program would
otherwise apply if that program has the more direct or relevant relationship to the underlying
(non-Commission) related action.81 The Comparability Approach would do this by authorizing
the Commission to make an award irrespective of the related action’s relative relationship to the
two award programs if the other award program is discretionary, or structured to provide
meaningfully smaller awards than the maximum potential award that could be granted by the
SEC’s program, or if the maximum total award amount that the Commission could pay is less
than or equal to $5 million. The Whistleblower’s Choice Option, by contrast, would allow the
Commission to make an award irrespective of the existence of another program and allow the
whistleblower to decide whether to accept the Commission’s award or the other program’s
award. While the two approaches are structured differently, the end result is that both the
Comparability Approach and the Whistleblower’s Choice Option may increase the total dollar
award amount for a whistleblower compared to the baseline. Thus both options could increase
the incentives for whistleblowers.
82
The Whistleblower’s Choice Option might have a slightly different incentive effect, since
a comparison would be made between realizable award amounts rather than analysis of award
structures.83 To the extent that a whistleblower prefers to exercise discretion over the selection
 81 It would be difficult to predict with any degree of certainty how often the Comparability
Approach would be relevant, particularly as whistleblower programs change, and new
whistleblower programs are implemented. That said, as discussed above, the Commission has
seen an increase in the number of award matters that would potentially implicate the
Comparability Approach.
82 See infra notes 84 and 85.
83 In theory, the Whistleblower’s Choice Option could result in a larger award than the
Comparability Approach. For example, a comparable program, such as the CFTC’s program,
might potentially determine an award amount at 20 percent. If, in that case, the Commission
would have exercised its discretion to determine an award at 30 percent for the related action, the
whistleblower would receive a larger amount under the Whistleblower’s Choice Option than
under the Comparability Approach.
of awards for the same related action, the whistleblower may prefer the Whistleblower’s Choice
Option because the whistleblower would have an opportunity to make a decision in every
instance where another award program might apply. In contrast, the Comparability Approach
would not offer the whistleblower the opportunity to exercise discretion.
To the extent that these amendments increase the willingness of some individuals to
come forward with information about potential securities law violations, this could, in turn,
increase Commission enforcement activity and deter wrongdoing. The effects of the rule
changes are expected to be small, due to the limited circumstances under which they would
apply, and because there are many factors, including non-pecuniary incentives, that motivate
whistleblowers.84 Although the effects may be small, economic research suggests that changes
in whistleblowing incentives may have an effect on the frequency of whistleblowing activity.85
Because these amendments may increase the amounts paid to whistleblowers under
certain circumstances, there may be costs associated with the proposed changes. One possibility
is that the IPF would be depleted.86 For example, assume the DOJ collected $1.5 billion on a
related action. If there were a meritorious whistleblower involved who was entitled to an award,
then even a mid-range 20 percent award would require the Commission to pay the whistleblower
$300 million, an amount that could well exhaust the IPF.
87 An award that exhausted the IPF
 84 The complex mix of pecuniary and non-pecuniary elements that motivate whistleblowers were
described in the economic analysis for the 2020 Adopting Release for Rule 21F-3(b)(3), section
VI.B.2, see Adopting Release, 85 FR 70937.
85 See Andrew C. Call, et al., Rank and File Employees and the Discovery of Misreporting: The
Role of Stock Options, 62 J. ACCT. & ECON. 277, 297-99 (2016). See also Jonas Heese &
Gerardo Perez-Cavazos, The Effect of Retaliation Costs on Employee Whistleblowing, 71 J.
ACCT. & ECON. 101385 (2021).
86 17 CFR 240.21F-14(d) (Exchange Act Section 21F-14(d)), which describes the procedures
applicable to the payment of awards, indicates that if there are insufficient amounts available in
the IPF to pay the entire amount of an award within a reasonable period of time, then the balance
of the payment shall be paid when amounts become available. These procedures specify the
relative priority of competing claims.
87 See generally Exchange Act Section 21F(g)(3)(A). At the end of FY 2021, the IPF’s balance
could produce additional effects that would depend on the size of the shortfall and the SEC
whistleblower awards that would otherwise be issued and paid during the shortfall period.88
In addition, we expect that these proposals would increase the administrative costs for the
SEC’s whistleblower program. For example, the Comparability Approach would require the
Commission to compare whistleblower programs based on the expected award amounts from
those programs. However, we believe these costs would be small relative to the baseline, and, to
the extent that the program structures are stable, the comparisons may not need to be repeated for
each case. In contrast, the Whistleblower’s Choice Option could be expected to increase the
administrative costs relative to the baseline more than the Comparability Approach because it
would require the Commission to determine whether an award should be granted in each case
where there is a related action and a separate whistleblower program.89 As described above, the
increase in administrative costs is expected to be greater for the Whistleblower’s Choice Option
than for the Comparability Approach.
2. Proposed Rule 21F-6
The proposed rule change would eliminate the Commission’s discretionary authority to
consider dollar amounts in reducing awards while retaining the Commissions’ discretionary
authority to consider dollar amounts to increase awards. The 2020 amendments that include
express language to authorize the Commission to consider, in its discretion, the dollar amount of
an award when making an award determination may have increased whistleblowers’ uncertainty
relating to the program and thus potentially reduced their willingness to report potential

was $144,442,134. To date, the largest amount the award fund has ever had is approximately
$453 million. See 2013 ANNUAL REPORT TO CONGRESS ON THE DODD-FRANK WHISTLEBLOWER
PROGRAM available at https://www.sec.gov/files/annual-report-2013.pdf.
88 See supra note 3. See also Exchange Act Section 21F(c)(1)(B)(ii).
89 The award presumption established by Rule 21F-6(c) could help limit the overall
administrative costs, however. See Adopting Release, 85 FR 70911 (discussing potential “gains
in efficiency from streamlining the award determination process” when the $5 million award
presumption would apply during the award-calculation phase).
misconduct. To the extent that the 2020 amendments have created uncertainty that may have
diminished a whistleblower’s willingness to come forward, eliminating this discretionary
authority would reduce uncertainty and thus potentially encourage more whistleblowing.
However, we cannot determine with any reasonable degree of certainty if the proposed revisions
to Rule 21F-6 would affect a whistleblower’s willingness to report a potential securities law
violation. To the extent that the Commission would have exercised the discretion to lower award
amounts, the amendments to Rule 21F-6 would increase program costs by any such amounts.90
C. Additional Alternatives
As discussed above, the Offset Approach and the Topping-Off Approach are alternatives
that may also increase whistleblower award incentives. For example, under certain
circumstances, the Offset Approach may produce award amounts in related actions that are
comparable, if not identical, to the awards produced under the Comparability Approach and the
Whistleblower’s Choice Approach. In contrast, the Topping-Off Approach may result in smaller
changes in the award amounts.91
As also discussed above, both of these approaches would likely increase the
Commission’s award-processing time, because the Commission’s final award-amount
determinations would be dependent on the completion resolution of the award process by the
entity or authority administering the other award program. Additional delays may adversely
affect whistleblower incentives. As a result, despite the generally positive expected impact on
award amounts, the net impact on whistleblower incentives from the Offset Approach and the
 90 Similar to the proposed amendments to Rule 21F-3(b)(3), to the extent that program costs
increase as a result of these proposed amendments, there would be an increase in the possibility
that the IPF would be depleted. As described above, an award that exhausted the IPF could
produce additional effects that would depend on the size of the shortfall and the SEC
whistleblower awards that would otherwise be issued and paid during the shortfall period. See
supra notes 86 through 88 and accompanying text.
91 As described above, the Topping-Off Approach would not allow the Commission to provide
an increase to the covered-action in those instances where the Commission grants an award at the
30 percent statutory cap, which occurs in a substantial portion of cases.
Topping-Off Approach is ambiguous.
D. Effects of the Proposed Rules on Efficiency, Competition, and Capital
Formation
As discussed earlier, the Commission is sensitive to the economic consequences of its
rules, including the effects on efficiency, competition, and capital formation. The Commission
believes that the proposed amendments would make incremental changes to its whistleblower
program. Thus, the Commission does not anticipate the effects on efficiency, competition, and
capital formation to be significant.
The proposed rules could have a positive indirect impact on investment efficiency and
capital formation by increasing the incentives of potential whistleblowers to provide information
on possible violations. To the extent that increased whistleblowing incentives stemming from
the proposed rules result in more timely reporting of useful information on possible violations or
the reporting of higher quality information on possible violations, the Commission’s enforcement
activities could become more effective. More effective enforcement could lead to earlier
detection of violations and increased deterrence of potential future violations, which could
improve price efficiency and assist in a more efficient allocation of investment funds. Securities
frauds, for example, can cause inefficiencies in the economy by diverting investment funds from
legitimate, productive uses.92
Request for Comment
The Commission seeks commenters’ views and suggestions on all aspects of its economic
analysis of the proposed amendments. In particular, the Commission asks commenters to
consider the following questions:
 92 See Adopting Release, 76 FR 34362.
14. Are there costs and benefits associated with the proposed amendments that the
Commission has not identified? If so, please identify them and, if possible, offer ways of
estimating these costs and benefits.
15. Are there effects on efficiency, competition, and capital formation stemming from the
proposed amendments that the Commission has not identified? If so, please identify them and
explain how the identified effects result from one or more amendments.
V. Small Business Regulatory Enforcement Fairness Act
For purposes of the Small Business Regulatory Enforcement Fairness Act of 1996
(“SBREFA”),93 the Commission solicits data to determine whether the proposed rule
amendments constitute a “major” rule. Under SBREFA, a rule is considered “major” where, if
adopted, it results or is likely to result in:
• An annual effect on the economy of $100 million or more (either in the form of an
increase or a decrease);
• A major increase in costs or prices for consumers or individual industries; or
• Significant adverse effects on competition, investment, or innovation.
Commenters should provide empirical data on: (a) the potential annual effect on the
economy; (b) any increase in costs or prices for consumers or individual industries; and (c) any
potential effect on competition, investment or innovation.
VI. Regulatory Flexibility Act Certification
Section 603(a) of the Regulatory Flexibility Act94 requires the Commission to undertake
an initial regulatory flexibility analysis of the proposed rules unless the Commission certifies that
 93 Pub. L. 104-121, tit. II, 110 Stat 857 (1996).
94 5 U.S.C. 603(a).
the proposed rules, if adopted, would not have a significant economic impact on a substantial
number of small entities.95
Small entity is defined in Section 601(6) of Title 5 of the U.S. Code to mean “small
business,” “small organization,” and “small governmental jurisdiction” (see Section 601(3)
through (5)). The definition of “small entity” does not include individuals. The proposed rules
apply only to an individual, or individuals acting jointly, who provide information to the
Commission relating to the violation of the securities laws. Companies and other entities are not
eligible to participate in the whistleblower award program as whistleblowers. Consequently, the
persons that would be subject to the proposed rules are not “small entities” for purposes of the
Regulatory Flexibility Act.
For the reasons stated above, the Commission certifies, pursuant to 605(b) of Title 5 of
the U.S. Code that the proposed rules if adopted would not have a significant economic impact
on a substantial number of small entities.
Solicitation of Comments: We encourage the submission of comments with respect to any
aspect of this Regulatory Flexibility Act Certification. To the extent that commenters believe
that the proposed rules if adopted might have a covered impact, we ask they describe the nature
of any impact and provide empirical data supporting the extent of the impact. We will place any
such comments in the same public file as comments on the proposed amendments themselves.
VII. Statutory Basis
The Commission proposes the rule amendments contained in this document under the
authority set forth in Sections 3(b), 21F, and 23(a) of the Exchange Act.
List of Subjects in 17 CFR Part 240
Securities, Whistleblowing.
 95 5 U.S.C. 605(b).
Text of the Proposed Amendments
For the reasons set out in the preamble, title 17, chapter II of the Code of Federal
Regulations is proposed to be amended as follows:
PART 240 - GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS, SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT
OF 1934
1. The authority citation for part 240 continues to read, in part, as follows:
Authority: 15 U.S.C. 77c, 77d, 77g, 77j, 77s, 77z-2, 77z-3, 77eee, 77ggg, 77nnn, 77sss,
77ttt, 78c, 78c-3, 78c-5, 78d, 78e, 78f, 78g, 78i, 78j, 78j-1, 78k, 78k-1, 78l, 78m, 78n, 78n-1,
78o, 78o-4, 78o-10, 78p, 78q, 78q-1, 78s, 78u-5, 78w, 78x, 78dd, 78ll, 78mm, 80a-20, 80a-23,
80a-29, 80a-37, 80b-3, 80b-4, 80b-11, and 7201 et seq., and 8302; 7 U.S.C. 2(c)(2)(E); 12 U.S.C.
5221(e)(3); 18 U.S.C. 1350; Pub. L. 111-203, 939A, 124 Stat. 1376 (2010); and Pub. L. 112-106,
sec. 503 and 602, 126 Stat. 326 (2012), unless otherwise noted.
* * * * *
Section 240.21F is also issued under Pub. L. 111-203, §922(a), 124 Stat. 1841 (2010).
* * * * *
Option 1
2. Amend § 240.21F-3 by:
a. Revising paragraphs (b)(3) introductory text and (b)(3)(i) and (iii); and
b. Adding paragraphs (b)(3)(iv), (v), and (vi).
The revisions and additions read as follows:
§ 240.21F-3 Payment of awards.
* * * * *
(b) * * *
(3) The following provision shall apply where a claimant’s application for a potential
related action may also involve a potential recovery from a comparable whistleblower award
program (as defined in paragraph (b)(3)(iv) of this section) for that same action.
(i) Notwithstanding paragraph (b)(1) of this section, if a judicial or administrative action
is subject to a separate monetary award program established by the Federal Government, a state
government, or a self-regulatory organization (SRO), the Commission will only potentially
qualify for related-action status if either:
(A) The Commission finds that the maximum total award that could potentially be paid
by the Commission would not exceed $5 million; or
(B) The Commission finds (based on the facts and circumstances of the action) that the
Commission’s whistleblower program has the more direct or relevant connection to that action.
* * * * *
(iii) The conditions in paragraphs (b)(3)(iii)(A) through (C) of this section apply to a
determination under paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section.
(A) The Commission shall not make a related-action award to a claimant (or any payment
on a related-action award if the Commission has already made an award determination) if the
claimant receives any payment from the other program for that action.
(B) If a claimant was denied an award by the other award program, the claimant will not
be permitted to readjudicate any issues before the Commission that the governmental/SRO entity
responsible for administering the other whistleblower award program resolved, pursuant to a
final order of such government/SRO entity, against the claimant as part of the award denial.
(C) If the Commission makes an award before an award determination is finalized by the
governmental/SRO entity responsible for administering the other award program, the award shall
be conditioned on the claimant making an irrevocable waiver of any claim to an award from the
other award program. The claimant’s irrevocable waiver must be made within 60 calendar days
of the claimant receiving notification of the Commission’s final order.
(iv) The provisions of paragraphs (b)(3)(iv)(A) through (D) of this section apply to
program comparability determinations.
(A) For purposes of paragraph (b)(3) of this section, a comparable whistleblower award
program is an award program that satisfies the following criteria:
(1) The award program is administered by an authority or entity other than the
Commission;
(2) The award program does not have an award range that could operate in a particular
action to yield an award for a claimant that is meaningfully lower (when assessed against the
maximum and minimum potential awards that program would allow) than the award range that
the Commission’s program could yield (i.e., 10 to 30 percent of collected monetary sanctions);
and
(3) The award program does not have a cap that could operate in a particular action to
yield an award for a claimant that is meaningfully lower than the maximum award the
Commission could grant for the action (i.e., 30 percent of collected monetary sanctions in the
related action).
(4) The authority or entity administering the program may not in its sole discretion deny
an award notwithstanding the fact that a whistleblower otherwise satisfies the established
eligibility requirements and award criteria.
(B) The Commission shall make a determination on a case-by-case basis whether an
alternative award program is a comparable award program for purposes of the particular action
on which the claimant is seeking a related-action award with respect to paragraphs
(b)(3)(iv)(A)(1) through (3) of this section.
(C) If the Commission determines that an alternative award program is not comparable,
the Commission shall condition its award on the meritorious whistleblower making within 60
calendar days of receiving notification of the Commission’s final award an irrevocable waiver of
any claim to an award from the other award program.
(D) A whistleblower whose related-action award application is subject to the provisions
of paragraph (b)(3) of this section (including a whistleblower whose related-action award
application implicates another award program that does not qualify as a comparable program as a
result of paragraph (b)(3)(iv)(A) of this section) has the affirmative obligation to demonstrate
that the whistleblower has complied with the terms and conditions of this section regarding an
irrevocable waiver. This shall include taking all steps necessary to authorize the administrators
of the other program to confirm to staff in the Office of the Whistleblower (or in writing to the
claimant or the Commission) that an irrevocable waiver has been made.
(v) A claimant seeking a related-action award also has an affirmative obligation to
promptly inform the Office of the Whistleblower if the claimant applies for an award on the
same action from another award program.
(vi) The Commission may deem a claimant ineligible for a related-action award if any of
the conditions and requirements of paragraph (b)(3) of this section in connection with that related
action are not satisfied.
Option 2
3. Amend § 240.21F-3 by revising paragraph (b)(3) to read as follows:
§ 240.21F-3 Payment of awards.
* * * * *
(b) * * *
(3) The following terms and conditions apply whenever an award claimant’s application
for an award in connection with a related action may also involve a potential recovery from
another whistleblower award program for that same action.
(i) If the Commission determines that the claimant qualifies for an award for the related
action, any payment of that award shall be conditioned on the claimant making an irrevocable
waiver of any award or potential award from the other award program. In determining whether a
claimant qualifies for an award on a related action (and in setting the amount of any award), the
Commission shall process the application without regard to the existence of the alternative award
program or any award determination that the alternative program reaches.
(ii) The Commission shall not make a related-action award to a claimant (or any payment
on an award if the Commission has already made an award determination) if the claimant has
received at any point prior to the Commission making any payment on a related-action award
any payment from the other program for that action.
(iii) To receive payment from the Commission for a related-action award, a claimant
must make an irrevocable waiver of any award from the other program within 60 calendar days
of receiving a final notification from both award programs regarding the award amounts.
(iv) A claimant subject to paragraph (b)(3) of this section has the affirmative obligation to
demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Commission that the claimant has complied with the terms
and conditions of this section regarding an irrevocable waiver. This may include taking all steps
necessary to authorize the administrators of the other program to confirm to staff in the Office of
the Whistleblower (or in writing to the claimant or the Commission) that an irrevocable waiver
has been made.
(v) A claimant seeking a related-action award has an affirmative obligation to promptly
notify the Office of the Whistleblower in writing if the claimant applies for an award on the same
action from another award program.
(vi) The Commission may deem a claimant ineligible for a related-action award if any of
the conditions and requirements of paragraph (b)(3) of this section in connection with that related
action are not satisfied.
4. Amend § 240.21F-4 by revising paragraph (c)(2) to read as follows:
§ 240.21F-4 Other definitions.
* * * * *
(c) * * *
(2) You gave the Commission original information about conduct that was already under
examination or investigation by the Commission, the Congress, any other authority of the
Federal Government, a state attorney general or securities regulatory authority, any selfregulatory organization, or the PCAOB (except in cases where you were an original source of
this information as defined in paragraph (b)(5) of this section), and your submission significantly
contributed to the success of the action; or
* * * * *
5. Amend § 240.21F-6 by adding paragraph (d) to read as follows:
§ 240.21F-6 Criteria for determining amount of award.
* * * * *
(d) Consideration of the dollar amount of an award. When applying the award factors
specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, the Commission may consider the dollar
amount of a potential award for the limited purpose of increasing the award amount. The
Commission shall not, however, use the dollar amount of a potential award as a basis to lower a
potential award, including but not limited to in applying the factors specified in paragraphs (a)
and (b) of this section.
6. Amend § 240.21F-8 by revising paragraph (e)(4)(ii) to read as follows:
§ 240.21F-8 Eligibility and forms.
* * * * *
(e) * * *
(4) * * *
(ii) If, within 30 calendar days of the Office of the Whistleblower providing the foregoing
notification, you withdraw the relevant award application(s), the withdrawn award application(s)
will not be considered by the Commission in determining whether to exercise its authority under
paragraph (e) of this section.
7. Amend § 240.21F-10 by revising paragraph (e) to read as follows:
§ 240.21F-10 Procedures for making a claim for a whistleblower award in SEC actions
that result in monetary sanctions in excess of $1,000,000.
* * * * *
(e) You may contest the Preliminary Determination made by the Claims Review Staff by
submitting a written response to the Office of the Whistleblower setting forth the grounds for
your objection to either the denial of an award or the proposed amount of an award. The
response must be in the form and manner that the Office of the Whistleblower shall require. You
may also include documentation or other evidentiary support for the grounds advanced in your
response. In applying the award factors specified in § 240.21F-6, and determining the award
dollar and percentage amounts set forth in the Preliminary Determination, the award factors may
be considered by the SEC staff and the Commission in dollar terms, percentage terms or some
combination thereof, subject to the limitations imposed by § 240.21F-6(d). Should you choose
to contest a Preliminary Determination, you may set forth the reasons for your objection to the
proposed amount of an award, including the grounds therefore, in dollar terms, percentage terms
or some combination thereof.
(1) Before determining whether to contest a Preliminary Determination, you may:
(i) Within 30 calendar days of the date of the Preliminary Determination, request that the
Office of the Whistleblower make available for your review the materials from among those set
forth in § 240.21F-12(a) that formed the basis of the Claims Review Staff's Preliminary
Determination.
(ii) Within 30 calendar days of the date of the Preliminary Determination, request a
meeting with the Office of the Whistleblower; however, such meetings are not required, and the
office may in its sole discretion decline the request.
(2) If you decide to contest the Preliminary Determination, you must submit your written
response and supporting materials within 60 calendar days of the date of the Preliminary
Determination, or if a request to review materials is made pursuant to paragraph (e)(1) of this
section, then within 60 calendar days of the Office of the Whistleblower making those materials
available for your review.
* * * * * *
8. Amend § 240.21F-11 by revising paragraphs (a), (c), and (e) to read as follows:
§ 240.21F-11 Procedures for determining awards based upon a related action.
(a) If you are eligible to receive an award following a Commission action that results in
monetary sanctions totaling more than $1,000,000, you also may be eligible to receive an award
in connection with a related action (as defined in § 240.21F-3).
* * * * *
(c) The Office of the Whistleblower may request additional information from you in
connection with your claim for an award in a related action to demonstrate that you directly (or
through the Commission) voluntarily provided the governmental/SRO entity (as specified in
§ 240.21F-3(b)(1)) the same original information that led to the Commission’s successful
covered action, and that this information led to the successful enforcement of the related action.
Further, the Office of the Whistleblower, in its discretion, may seek assistance and confirmation
from the governmental/SRO entity in making an award determination. Additionally, if your
related-action award application might implicate a second whistleblower program, the Office of
the Whistleblower is authorized to request information from you or to contact any authority or
entity responsible for administering that other program, including disclosing the whistleblower’s
identity if necessary, to ensure compliance with the terms of § 240.21F-3(b)(3).
* * * * *
(e) You may contest the Preliminary Determination made by the Claims Review Staff by
submitting a written response to the Office of the Whistleblower setting forth the grounds for
your objection to either the denial of an award or the proposed amount of an award. The
response must be in the form and manner that the Office of the Whistleblower shall require. You
may also include documentation or other evidentiary support for the grounds advanced in your
response. In applying the award factors specified in § 240.21F-6, and determining the award
dollar and percentage amounts set forth in the Preliminary Determination, the award factors may
be considered by the SEC staff and the Commission in dollar terms, percentage terms or some
combination thereof, subject to the limitations imposed by § 240.21F-6(d). Should you choose
to contest a Preliminary Determination, you may set forth the reasons for your objection to the
proposed amount of an award, including the grounds therefore, in dollar terms, percentage terms
or some combination thereof.
(1) Before determining whether to contest a Preliminary Determination, you may:
(i) Within 30 calendar days of the date of the Preliminary Determination, request that the
Office of the Whistleblower make available for your review the materials from among those set
forth in § 240.21F-12(a) that formed the basis of the Claims Review Staff’s Preliminary
Determination.
(ii) Within 30 calendar days of the date of the Preliminary Determination, request a
meeting with the Office of the Whistleblower; however, such meetings are not required, and the
office may in its sole discretion decline the request.
(2) If you decide to contest the Preliminary Determination, you must submit your written
response and supporting materials within 60 calendar days of the date of the Preliminary
Determination, or if a request to review materials is made pursuant to paragraph (e)(1) of this
section, then within 60 calendar days of the Office of the Whistleblower making those materials
available for your review.
* * * * *
By the Commission.
Dated: February 10, 2022.
Vanessa A. Countryman,
Secretary.