1
Conformed to the Federal Register Version
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
17 CFR Parts 232, 240, 242, and 249
[Release No. 34-94062; File No. S7-02-22]
RIN 3235-AM45
Amendments Regarding the Definition of “Exchange” and Alternative Trading Systems
(ATSs) That Trade U.S. Treasury and Agency Securities, National Market System (NMS)
Stocks, and Other Securities.
AGENCY: Securities and Exchange Commission.
ACTION: Proposed rule.
SUMMARY: The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) is proposing to
amend Rule 3b-16 under Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), which defines
certain terms used in the statutory definition of “exchange” under Section 3(a)(1) of the
Exchange Act to include systems that offer the use of non-firm trading interest and
communication protocols to bring together buyers and sellers of securities. In addition, the
Commission is re-proposing amendments to its regulations under the Exchange Act that were
initially proposed in September 2020 for ATSs to take into consideration systems that may fall
within the definition of exchange because of the proposed amendments and operate as an ATS.
The Commission is re-proposing, with certain revisions, amendments to its regulations for ATSs
that trade government securities as defined under Section 3(a)(42) of the Exchange Act
(“government securities”) or repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements on government
securities (“Government Securities ATSs”). The Commission is also proposing to amend Form
ATS-N for NMS Stock ATSs, which would require existing NMS Stock ATSs to amend their
existing disclosures. In addition, the Commission is proposing to amend the fair access rule for
ATSs. The Commission is also proposing to require electronic filing of and to modernize Form
2
ATS-R and Form ATS, which would require existing Form ATS filers to amend their existing
disclosures. Further, the Commission is re-proposing amendments to its regulations regarding
systems compliance and integrity to apply to ATSs that meet certain volume thresholds in U.S.
Treasury Securities or in a debt security issued or guaranteed by a U.S. executive agency, or
government-sponsored enterprise (“Agency Securities”).
DATES: Comments should be received on or before APRIL 18, 2022.
ADDRESSES: Comments may be submitted by any of the following methods:
Electronic Comments:
• Use the Commission’s Internet comment form (https://www.sec.gov/regulatoryactions/how-to-submit-comments); or
• Send an e-mail to rule-comments@sec.gov. Please include File Number S7-02-22 on the
subject line.
Paper Comments:
• Send paper comments to Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 100 F Street
NE, Washington, DC 20549-1090.
All submissions should refer to File Number S7-02-22. This file number should be included on
the subject line if e-mail is used. To help the Commission process and review your comments
more efficiently, please use only one method. The Commission will post all comments on the
Commission’s Internet website (https://www.sec.gov/rules/proposed.shtml). Comments are also
available for website viewing and printing in the Commission’s Public Reference Room, 100 F
Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549, on official business days between the hours of 10 a.m. and 3
p.m. Operating conditions may limit access to the Commission’s public reference room.
Persons submitting comments are cautioned that we do not redact or edit personal identifying
information from comment submissions. You should submit only information that you wish to
make available publicly.
3
Studies, memoranda, or other substantive items may be added by the Commission or staff
to the comment file during this rulemaking. A notification of the inclusion in the comment file
of any materials will be made available on the Commission’s website. To ensure direct
electronic receipt of such notifications, sign up through the “Stay Connected” option at
www.sec.gov to receive notifications by e-mail.
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Regulation ATS: Tyler Raimo, Assistant
Director, at (202) 551-6227; Matthew Cursio, Special Counsel, at (202) 551-5748; David Garcia,
Special Counsel, at (202) 551-5681; Megan Mitchell, Special Counsel, at (202) 551-4887; Amir
Katz, Special Counsel, at (202) 551-7653; and Joanne Kim, Attorney Advisor, at (202) 551-
4393, and for Regulation SCI: David Liu, Special Counsel, at (312) 353-6265 and Sara
Hawkins, Special Counsel, at (202) 551-5523, Office of Market Supervision, Division of Trading
and Markets, Securities and Exchange Commission, 100 F Street NE, Washington, DC 20549.
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The Commission is proposing amendments to the
following rules under the Exchange Act: (1) 17 CFR 232.101 (Rule 101 of Regulation S-T); (2)
17 CFR 240.3b-16 (Rule 3b-16); (3) 17 CFR 242.300 (Rule 300 of Regulation ATS);1
 (4) 17
CFR 242.301 (Rule 301 of Regulation ATS); (5) 17 CFR 242.302 (Rule 302 of Regulation

1
 “Regulation ATS” consists of 17 CFR 242.300 through 242.304 (Rules 300 through 304
under the Exchange Act). See also Regulation ATS Adopting Release, infra note 31.
4
ATS); (6) 17 CFR 242.304 (Rule 304 of Regulation ATS);2 and (7) 17 CFR 242.1000 (Rule
1000 of Regulation SCI).3
I. Introduction
In September 2020, the Commission issued a proposal to amend Regulation ATS and
Regulation SCI for Government Securities ATSs (“2020 Proposal”).4
 The Commission
recognized the critical role of government securities in the U.S. and global economy, the
significant volume in government securities transacted on systems currently operating as ATSs,
and these ATSs’ growing importance to investors and overall securities market structure.
Notwithstanding their importance for government securities, the investor protection and fair and
orderly market principles of Regulation ATS have limited application to Government Securities
ATSs.5
 For example, an ATS that limits its securities activities to government securities or

2
 The Commission adopted Rule 304 on July 18, 2018. See Securities Exchange Act
Release No. 83663 (July 18, 2018), 83 FR 38768 (August 7, 2018) (“NMS Stock ATS
Adopting Release”).
3
 The Commission adopted 17 CFR 242.1000 through 242.1007 (Regulation SCI) on
November 19, 2014. See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 73639 (November 19,
2014), 79 FR 72252 (December 5, 2014) (“Regulation SCI Adopting Release”).
4
 See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 90019 (September 28, 2020), 85 FR 87106
(December 31, 2020).
5
 For the purposes of this re-proposal, the term “Government Securities ATS” refers to an
ATS that trades government securities or repos and includes ATSs that would be subject
to Regulation ATS after the effective date of any final rule. This term includes three
categories of ATSs. First, a “Currently Exempted Government Securities ATS” means
an ATS that trades government securities or repos, is operating as of the effective date of
any final rule, and was formerly not required to comply with Regulation ATS under 17
CFR 240.3a1-1(a)(3) (Exchange Act Rule 3a1-1(a)(3)) exemption prior to the effective
date of any final rule. Second, a “Current Government Securities ATS” means an ATS
that trades government securities or repos and is operating pursuant to an initial operation
report on Form ATS on file with the Commission as of the effective date of any final
rule. Finally, when referring to regulatory requirements after the effective date of any
final rule, the term “Government Securities ATS” also includes a Communication
Protocol System that trades U.S. Government securities or repos on U.S. Government
securities and that chooses to operate as an ATS after the effective date of any final rule.
A “Communication Protocol System” would include a system that offers protocols and
5
repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements on government securities (“repos”) and registers
as a broker-dealer or is a bank (i.e., a Currently Exempted Government Securities ATS) is
exempt from exchange registration and is not required to comply with Regulation ATS. Further,
ATSs that trade both government securities and non-government securities (e.g., corporate
bonds) are subject to Regulation ATS but are not required to comply with many of its investor
protection and fair and orderly markets provisions, including public transparency rules and the
obligation to provide fair access to investors if the ATS has significant trading volume. In
addition, ATSs that trade government securities are not subject to the systems integrity
provisions of Regulation SCI.
To promote operational transparency, investor protection, system integrity, fair and
orderly markets, and regulatory oversight for Government Securities ATSs, the Commission
proposed in the 2020 Proposal to: eliminate the exemption from compliance with Regulation
ATS for Currently Exempted Government Securities ATSs; require all Government Securities
ATSs to publicly file Form ATS-G, on which they would disclose information about their
operations and potential conflicts of interest; provide a process for the Commission to review
Form ATS-G disclosures for clarity, completeness, and potential violations of law and, if
necessary, declare ineffective Form ATS-G filings; and require an ATS that has significant
volume for U.S. Treasury Securities or Agency Securities to: (1) establish reasonable standards
for access to the ATS and apply those standards to all prospective and current subscribers in a
fair and non-discriminatory manner pursuant Rule 301(b)(5) of Regulation ATS (“Fair Access

the use of non-firm trading interest to bring together buyers and sellers of securities. The
re-proposal also uses the term “Legacy Government Securities ATS,” which includes all
ATSs that trade government securities or repos and are operating as of the effective date
of any final rule, regardless of whether the ATSs are operating pursuant to an initial
operation report on Form ATS on file with the Commission (i.e., all Current Government
Securities ATSs and Currently Exempted Government Securities ATSs).
6
Rule”); and (2) comply with the operational capability, security, business continuity planning,
incident reporting, and related requirements under Regulation SCI.
6
 The Commission issued a
concept release (“Concept Release”) in addition to the 2020 Proposal on the regulation of fixed
income electronic trading platforms.7
 The Concept Release requested comments on a wide range
of topics, including the different regulatory treatment among fixed income electronic trading
platforms that use diverse trading protocols or business models and various aspects of
government securities, corporate bonds, and municipal securities trading, including their
operations, services, fees, market data, and participants.
The Commission received comments in response to the 2020 Proposal and Concept
Release.8
 Commenters expressed broad support for the 2020 Proposal. In general, commenters
supported the proposed requirements to remove the exemption for Currently Exempted
Government Securities ATSs and to require public disclosures on Form ATS-G.9
 However,

6
 The Commission also had proposed to amend Regulation ATS to: require that Form ATS
and Form ATS-R be filed with the Commission electronically through the Electronic
Data Gathering, Analysis, and Retrieval (EDGAR) system and modernize both forms;
eliminate confidential treatment of the types of securities that an ATS trades as disclosed
on the ATS’s Form ATS and Form ATS-R; update and correct Form ATS-N; change the
reasons for which the Commission could extend the initial Form ATS-N review period;
require NMS Stock ATSs to post on their websites the most recently disseminated Form
ATS-N, except for any amendment that the Commission has declared ineffective or that
has been withdrawn; and remove the exclusion from compliance with the Fair Access
Rule and Rule 301(b)(6) under Regulation ATS for an ATS that matches non-displayed
customer orders using prices disseminated by an effective transaction reporting plan.
7
 See 2020 Proposal, supra note 4.
8
 These comment letters are available at https://www.sec.gov/comments/s7-12-
20/s71220.htm and discussed throughout this proposal.
9
 See, e.g., letter from Marcia E. Asquith, Executive Vice President & Corporate Secretary,
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc., dated March 1, 2021 (“FINRA Letter”) at
2; letter from Rob Toomey, Managing Director & Associate General Counsel, Securities
Industry and Financial Markets Association, Chris Killian, Managing Director,
Securitization and Credit, Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association, and
Leslie Norwood, Managing Director, Associate General Counsel, Securities Industry and
Financial Markets Association, dated March 1, 2021 (“SIFMA Letter”) at 2; letter from
7
some commenters expressed concern regarding aspects of the 2020 Proposal, including the
proposed enhanced disclosure requirements and effectiveness regime10 and the proposal to
require Government Securities ATSs that meet certain volume thresholds to register as national
securities exchanges.11 In addition, commenters who opined on the Fair Access Rule and
Regulation SCI had differing views about whether and how to apply them to Government
Securities ATSs.12
In addition, the Commission received substantial comment on the Concept Release, in
particular concerning the regulatory framework for fixed income electronic trading platforms.
Many commenters recognized that certain electronic trading platforms for fixed income
securities are not regulated as registered exchanges or ATSs despite performing the same market
function as those regulated markets.13 Several commenters expressed support for the

Elisabeth Kirby, Head of U.S. Market Structure, Tradeweb Markets Inc., dated March 1,
2021 (“Tradeweb Letter”) at 2; letter from Jennifer W. Han, Chief Counsel & Head of
Regulatory Affairs, Managed Funds Association, dated March 1, 2021 (“MFA Letter”) at
2-3; and Tyler Gellasch, Executive Director, Healthy Markets Association, dated March
22, 2021 (“Healthy Markets Letter”) at 7.
10 See letter from Robert Laorno, General Counsel, ICE Bonds Securities Corporation,
dated March 8, 2021(“ICE Bonds Letter I”) at 5.
11 See letter from Kathleen M. Cronin, Senior Managing Director, General Counsel and
Corporate Secretary, CME Group Inc., dated February 26, 2021 (“BrokerTec Letter”) at
3-4.
12 See, e.g., SIFMA Letter at 5 (supporting the proposed volume thresholds); Americans for
Financial Reform Education Fund, dated March 1, 2021 (“AFREF Letter”) at 3
(supporting the proposed threshold with respect to Regulation SCI and stating that they
believe the proposed threshold for the Fair Access Rule is too low); Healthy Markets
Letter at 10-11 (recommending a lower threshold for Regulation SCI); letter from
Gregory Babyak, Global Head of Regulatory Affairs, Bloomberg L.P., dated March 1,
2021 (“Bloomberg Letter”) at 5-6 (stating that the proposed thresholds are too high); ICE
Bonds Letter I at 5 (suggesting a 20 percent threshold for application of Regulation SCI);
Tradeweb Letter at 3, 11 (recommending a “more material” threshold for applying
Regulation SCI). See also infra Sections III.B.4 and III.C.
13 See, e.g., letter from Stephen John Berger, Managing Director, Global Head of
Government and Regulatory Policy, Citadel, dated March 1, 2021 (“Citadel Letter”);
letter from Joanna Mallers, Secretary, FIA Principal Traders Group, dated March 1, 2021
8
Commission to expand the scope of its exchange regulation to encompass more fixed income
platforms,14 while several other commenters believed that such action is not necessary or
appropriate.
15
Advances in technology and innovation since Regulation ATS was adopted in 199816
have changed the methods by which securities markets bring together buyers and sellers of
securities. As discussed further below, innovations in trading protocols have increased
efficiencies and access to discover liquidity and prices, search for a counterparty, and agree upon
the terms of a trade. Instead of using exchange markets that offer only the use of firm orders and
provide matching algorithms, market participants are able to connect to numerous
Communication Protocol Systems, which offer the use of protocols and non-firm trading interest
to bring together buyers and sellers of securities. Communication Protocol Systems today
perform similar market place functions of bringing together buyers and sellers as registered
exchanges and ATSs and have become an increasingly preferred choice of trading venue,
particularly for fixed income securities. However, as a function of how Exchange Act Rule 3b16 currently defines the terms in Section 3(a)(1) of the Exchange Act, Communication Protocol
Systems do not fall within the definition of exchange. As a result, Communication Protocol
Systems are not subject to the same regulatory requirements as registered exchanges and ATSs
and the investors using them do not receive the investor protection, fair and orderly markets,

(“FIA PTG Letter”) at 2; letter from Robert Laorno, General Counsel, ICE Bonds
Securities Corporation, dated March 15, 2021 (“ICE Bonds Letter II”) at 2-4; FINRA
Letter at 6; MFA Letter at 8; Tradeweb Letter at 4.
14 See, e.g., Citadel Letter; FIA PTG Letter; ICE Bonds Letter II.
15 See, e.g., letter from Sarah A. Bessin, Associate General Counsel, Investment Company
Institute and Nhan Nguyen, Counsel, Investment Company Institute, dated March 1, 2021
(“ICI Letter”) at 2, 7; letter from Scott Pintoff, General Counsel, MarketAxess, dated
March 1, 2021 (“MarketAxess Letter”) at 2-4; Bloomberg Letter at 17-20.
16 See Regulation ATS Adopting Release, infra note 31.
9
transparency, and oversight benefits stemming from exchange regulation. Further, by
Communication Protocol Systems falling outside the definition of exchange, a disparity has
developed among similar markets that bring together buyers and sellers of securities, in which
some are regulated as exchanges and others are not. This regulatory disparity can create a
competitive imbalance and a lack of investor protections.17
Given the changing conditions among markets to bring together buyers and sellers of
securities, and taking into consideration comment letters submitted in response to the 2020
Proposal and the Concept Release, the Commission is proposing to amend Exchange Act Rule
3b-16 regarding what “shall be considered to constitute, maintain, or provide ‘a market place or
facilities for bringing together purchasers and sellers of securities or for otherwise performing
with respect to securities the functions commonly performed by a stock exchange’ as those terms
are used” in the statutory definition of “exchange” under Exchange Act Section 3(a)(1).
18 The
proposed amendments to Exchange Act Rule 3b-16(a) would include Communication Protocol
Systems that make available for trading any type of security, including, among others,
government securities, corporate bonds, municipal securities, NMS stocks, equity securities that
are not NMS stocks, private restricted securities, repurchase agreements and reverse repurchase
agreements, foreign sovereign debt, and options. Including Communication Protocol Systems
within the definition of “exchange” would appropriately regulate a market place that brings
together buyers and sellers of securities, extend the benefits of the exchange regulatory
framework to investors that use such systems, and reduce regulatory disparities among like
markets.

17 See infra Section VIII.C.3.a.
18 17 CFR 240.3b-16(a).
10
In addition, because the Commission is proposing to amend Exchange Act Rule 3b-16 to
include Communication Protocol Systems within the definition of exchange and taking into
consideration comments received in response to the 2020 Proposal and the Concept Release, the
Commission is re-proposing and revising previously proposed amendments to Regulation ATS
and Regulation SCI for Government Securities ATSs that include the following:19 (1) reproposing to eliminate the exemption from compliance with Regulation ATS for an ATS that
trades only government securities or repos and is operated by a broker-dealer or is a bank; (2) reproposing, with certain revisions, to require a Government Securities ATS that has significant
volume for U.S. Treasury Securities or Agency Securities to comply with the Fair Access Rule
under Regulation ATS and Regulation SCI;
20 (3) re-proposing to apply the enhanced disclosure
and filing requirements of Rule 304 of Regulation ATS, which are currently applicable to NMS
Stock ATSs, to all Government Securities ATSs; (4) proposing to require Government Securities
ATSs to file Form ATS-N, as revised, instead of previously proposed Form ATS-G;21 (5)

19 U.S. Treasury Securities and Agency Securities are not classes of securities for purposes
of Exchange Act Rule 3a1-1(b).
20 The Commission is re-proposing to amend Regulation ATS to require that Form ATS and
Form ATS-R be filed with the Commission electronically through EDGAR and to
modernize both forms; eliminate confidential treatment of the types of securities that an
ATS trades as disclosed on the ATS’s Form ATS and Form ATS-R; and remove the
exclusion from compliance with the Fair Access Rule and Rule 301(b)(6) under
Regulation ATS for an ATS that matches non-displayed customer orders using prices
disseminated by an effective transaction reporting plan. Covered ATSs would not be
required to post on their websites the most recently disseminated Form ATS-N, but
would be required to provide pursuant to Rule 304(b)(3)(i) a direct URL hyperlink to the
Commission’s website that contains the documents made public by the Commission
under Rule 304(b)(2).
21 In the 2020 Proposal, the Commission proposed that Government Securities ATSs file
proposed Form ATS-G. Given the significant overlap between proposed Form ATS-G
and existing Form ATS-N, the Commission is now proposing that Government Securities
ATSs file Form ATS-N, which is currently filed by NMS Stock ATSs, and proposing to
revise Form ATS-N to apply disclosures for Government Securities ATSs that would fall
under the proposed definition of “exchange.” See Appendix A for the proposed revisions
11
proposing several changes to Form ATS-N that would be applicable to both Government
Securities ATSs and NMS Stock ATSs, including questions about the ATS’s interaction with
related markets, liquidity providers, and activities the ATS undertakes to surveil and monitor its
market; (6) proposing amendments to Form ATS-N that would require existing NMS Stock
ATSs to file an amendment to their existing disclosures on Form ATS-N; (7) proposing to add a
new type of amendment to Form ATS-N to report changes to fee disclosures; (8) proposing to
amend the Form ATS-N review and effectiveness process to permit the Commission to extend
the review period for Form ATS-N amendments;
22 (9) proposing to make certain changes to the
Fair Access Rule that would apply to all ATSs that are subject to the rule;
23 and (10) reproposing electronic filing of Form ATS-R and Form ATS and proposing certain changes to the
categories of securities reported on Form ATS-R.24
II. Proposed Amendments Regarding the Definition of Exchange
A. Exchange Regulatory Framework
Exchange Act Section 3(a)(1) states that the term “exchange” means any organization,
association, or group of persons, whether incorporated or unincorporated, which constitutes,
maintains, or provides a market place or facilities for bringing together purchasers and sellers of
securities or for otherwise performing with respect to securities the functions commonly
performed by a stock exchange as that term is generally understood, and includes the market
place and the market facilities maintained by such exchange.
25

to Form ATS-N. The Commission believes that this would limit the number of unique
forms and simplify filing requirements.
22 The Commission is also re-proposing to change the reasons for which the Commission
could extend the initial Form ATS-N review period. See infra Section IV.A.
23 See infra Section V.A.
24 See infra Section V.B.
25 See 15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(1).
12
Section 5 of the Exchange Act26 requires an organization, association, or group of
persons that meets the definition of “exchange” under Section 3(a)(1) of the Exchange Act,27
unless otherwise exempt, to register with the Commission as a national securities exchange
pursuant to Section 6 of the Exchange Act.28 As discussed further below, registered national
securities exchanges are self-regulatory organizations (“SROs”),
29 and must comply with
regulatory requirements applicable to both national securities exchanges and SROs.30
In the Exchange Act, Congress provided a broad definition of the term “exchange,”
permitting the Commission to apply the definition flexibly as the securities markets evolve over
time.31 In 1998, the Commission adopted Regulation ATS.
32 At that time, the Commission

26 15 U.S.C. 78e.
27 See infra note 31.
28 15 U.S.C. 78f. A “national securities exchange” is an exchange registered as such under
Section 6 of the Exchange Act.
29 Section 3(a)(26) of the Exchange Act defines a self-regulatory organization as any
national securities exchange, registered securities association, registered clearing agency,
or (with limitations) the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board (“MSRB”). See 15
U.S.C. 78c(a)(26). See also Securities Exchange Act Release No. 76474 (November 18,
2015), 80 FR 80998, 81025 (December 28, 2015) (“NMS Stock ATS Proposing
Release”) at 81000-01 nn.20-26 and accompanying text (discussing certain differences
between certain obligations and benefits applicable to national securities exchanges and
those applicable to ATSs).
30 See, e.g., 15 U.S.C. 78f and 78s.
31 See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 40760 (December 8, 1998), 63 FR 70844,
70850 and 70898 (December 22, 1998) (“Regulation ATS Adopting Release”). See also
15 U.S.C. 78e and 78f. The Commission noted that it was recognized at the time the
Exchange Act was enacted that a regulatory structure for securities exchanges would “be
of little value tomorrow if it is not flexible enough to meet new conditions immediately
as they arise and demand attention in the public interest.” See Regulation ATS Adopting
Release at 70898, n.520 (citing Commission, Report of the Special Study of the
Securities Markets of the Securities and Exchange Commission, H.R. Doc. No. 95, 88th
Cong., 1st Sess. Pt. 1 (1963) at 6 and S. Rep. No. 792, 73rd Cong., 2d Sess. (1934) at 5
(noting that “exchanges cannot be regulated efficiently under a rigid statutory program,”
and that “considerable latitude is allowed for the exercise of administrative discretion in
the regulation of both”)).
32 See Regulation ATS Adopting Release, supra note 31, at 70850.
13
recognized that advances in technology had increasingly blurred the line between exchange and
broker-dealer activities33 and that ATSs that existed then were used by market participants as
functional equivalents of exchanges.34 To more accurately describe the range of markets that
performed exchange functions at that time, the Commission concurrently adopted Exchange Act
Rule 3b-16 to define terms35 used in the statutory definition of “exchange” under Exchange Act
Section 3(a)(1).
In Exchange Act Rule 3b-16(a), the Commission defined these terms, in light of the
markets that existed at that time, to include any organization, association, or group of persons
that: (1) brings together the orders for securities of multiple buyers and sellers; and (2) uses
established, non-discretionary methods (whether by providing a trading facility or by setting
rules) under which such orders interact with each other, and the buyers and sellers entering such
orders agree to the terms of a trade.36 Rule 3b-16(b) explicitly excluded certain systems that the
Commission believed were not exchanges.37 Accordingly, a system is not included in the
Commission’s interpretation of “exchange” if: (1) the system fails to meet the two-part test in
paragraph (a) of Rule 3b-16; (2) the system falls within one of the exclusions in paragraph (b) of

33 See id. at 70847.
34 See id.
35 The Commission adopted Exchange Act Rule 3b-16 under Section 3(b) of the Exchange
Act (power to define terms). 15 U.S.C. 78c(b).
36 See 17 CFR 240.3b-16(a).
37 See Regulation ATS Adopting Release, supra note 31, at 70852. Specifically, Rule 3b16(b) excludes from the definition of exchange systems that perform only traditional
broker-dealer activities, including: systems that route orders to a national securities
exchange, a market operated by a national securities association, a broker-dealer for
execution, or systems that allow persons to enter orders for execution against the bids and
offers of a single dealer if certain additional conditions are met.
14
Rule 3b-16; or (3) the Commission otherwise conditionally or unconditionally exempts38 the
system from the definition.
When the Commission adopted Exchange Act Rule 3b-16, the Commission also adopted
Exchange Act Rule 3a1-1(a) to exempt ATSs from the definition of “exchange” under Section
3(a)(1) of the Exchange Act. Exchange Act Rule 3a1-1(a)(2)39 exempts from the Exchange Act
Section 3(a)(1) definition of “exchange” an organization, association, or group of persons that
complies with Regulation ATS,40 which requires, among other things, meeting the definition of
an ATS and registering as a broker-dealer.41 Rule 300(a) of Regulation ATS defines an ATS as
any organization, association, person, group of persons, or system: (1) that constitutes,
maintains, or provides a market place or facilities for bringing together purchasers and sellers of
securities or for otherwise performing with respect to securities the functions commonly
performed by a stock exchange within the meaning of Rule 3b-16; and (2) that does not: (i) set
rules governing the conduct of subscribers other than the conduct of such subscribers’ trading on
such organization, association, person, group of persons, or system; or (ii) discipline subscribers

38 See 17 CFR 240.3b-16(e).
39 See 17 CFR 240.3a1-1(a)(2).
40 See id. Rule 3a1-1 also provides two other exemptions from the definition of “exchange”
for any ATS operated by a national securities association and any ATS not required to
comply with Regulation ATS pursuant to Rule 301(a) of Regulation ATS. See 17 CFR
240.3a1-1(a)(1) and (3).
Rule 3a1-1(b) provides an exception to the Rule 3a1-1(a) exemptions pursuant to which
the Commission may require a trading system that is a substantial market to register as a
national securities exchange, if the Commission finds doing so is necessary or
appropriate in the public interest or consistent with the protection of investors. See 17
CFR 240.3a1-1(b). See also Regulation ATS Adopting Release, supra note 31, at 70857-
58.
41 See 17 CFR 242.300(a); 17 CFR 242.301(a); and 17 CFR 242.301(b)(1). In addition to
the other requirements of Regulation ATS, to qualify for the Rule 3a1-1(a) exemption, an
organization, association, or group of persons must otherwise meet the definition of
“exchange.”
15
other than by exclusion from trading.42 Governing the conduct of or disciplining subscribers are
functions performed by an SRO that the Commission believed should be regulated as such.43
Accordingly, pursuant to Rule 300(a), a trading system that performs SRO functions or functions
common to national securities exchanges, such as establishing listing standards, is precluded
from the definition of ATS and would be required to register as a national securities exchange,
be operated by a national securities association, or seek another exemption.44
As a result of the exemption, an ATS that complies with Regulation ATS is not required
by Section 5 of the Exchange Act to register as a national securities exchange, is not an SRO,
and, therefore, is not required to comply with regulatory requirements applicable to national
securities exchanges and SROs.45 An ATS that fails to comply with the requirements of
Regulation ATS would no longer qualify for the exemption provided under Rule 3a1-1(a)(2), and
thus, risks operating as an unregistered exchange in violation of Section 5 of the Exchange Act.46
B. Adopting the Definition of Exchange for Evolving Market Places
 1. Orders-Focused Markets under Current Rule 3b-16
When the Commission adopted Exchange Act Rule 3b-16(a), the Commission sought to
more accurately describe the range of markets that performed exchange functions as those were
understood at that time.47 In the Regulation ATS Adopting Release, the Commission observed
that ATSs at that time provided services more akin to exchange functions than broker-dealer

42 See 17 CFR 242.300(a).
43 See Regulation ATS Adopting Release, supra note 31, at 70859.
44 See id.
45 See generally Sections 5, 6, and 19 of the Exchange Act, 15 U.S.C. 78e, 78f, and 78s.
46 See 15 U.S.C. 78e.
47 See Regulation ATS Adopting Release, supra note 31, at 70900.
16
functions, such as matching counterparties’ orders, executing trades, operating limit order books,
and facilitating active price discovery.48
In the Regulation ATS Adopting Release, the Commission identified two elements of
Exchange Act Rule 3b-16 that most accurately reflected the functions and uses of exchange
markets at that time. These elements were the bringing together of orders of multiple buyers and
sellers of securities and that trading takes place according to established, non-discretionary rules
or procedures.49 When considering what constituted an exchange at that time, the Commission
focused on the expectations of the participants regarding how an execution would occur without
the discretion of the operator. Because orders instruct a trading system to carry out the intention
of participants in accordance with programmed trading procedures, orders, along with
established, non-discretionary methods, contribute to how trading system participants could
understand and expect to receive an execution.
50 In addition, the Commission stated that “an
essential indication of the non-discretionary status of rules and procedures is that those rules and
procedures are communicated to the systems users” and “[t]hus, participants have an expectation
regarding the manner of execution—that is, if an order is entered, it will be executed in
accordance with those procedures and not at the discretion of a counterparty or intermediary.”51
Further, at the time Exchange Act Rule 3b-16(a) was adopted, most ATSs operating met
the criteria of the rule in that they offered the use of orders and algorithms that matched orders.
52

48 See id. at 70848.
49 See id. at 70900.
50 For example, the Commission stated in the Regulation ATS Adopting Release that “an
alternative trading system that posts firm orders to buy and sell a security does raise a
certain expectation of execution at those quoted prices” and that “[t]he expectation is
based on the life of the outstanding orders in the system, rather than continuous two sided
quotations published by specialist and market makers.” See id. at 70899, n.532.
51 See id. at 70900.
52 See id. at 70899-900, n.536.
17
ATSs at that time allowed broker-dealers to place and execute orders on the system and the
systems functioned as limit order books where orders are executed according to time, price, and
size priority.53 Accordingly, orders and established, non-discretionary methods undergirded
Exchange Act Rule 3b-16 to reflect functions of exchange markets at that time. When discussing
orders in the Regulation ATS Adopting Release, however, the Commission stated that systems
that displayed bona fide, non-firm trading interest54 or did not establish rules or operate a trading
facility55 would not fall within Rule 3b-16(a).
2. Prevalence of Systems Offering Non-Firm Trading Interest and Structured
Protocols
Advances in technology have facilitated innovations and more efficient or diverse
methods to bring together buyers and sellers of securities.
56 In the Commission’s experience,
Communication Protocol Systems, which can use various technologies and connectivity,
generally offer the use of non-firm trading interest and establish protocols to prompt and guide
buyers and sellers to communicate, negotiate, and agree to the terms of the trade without relying
solely on the use of orders. Below is a non-exhaustive list of some Communication Protocol
Systems.
One example of a Communication Protocol System is a “Request-for-Quote” (“RFQ”)
system. RFQ systems are designed to allow market participants to obtain quotes for a particular

53 See id. at 70899, n.525.
54 See id. at 70850. In the Regulation ATS Adopting Release, the Commission stated that
generally, however, a system that displays bona fide, non-firm indications of interest –
including, but not limited to indications of interest to buy or sell a particular security
without either prices or quantities associated with those indications – will not be
displaying “orders” and, therefore, not fall within Rule 3b-16. See id.
55 See id. The Commission also stated that “[u]nless a system also establishes rules or
operates a trading facility under which subscribers can agree to the terms of their trades,
the system will not be included within Rule 3b-16, even if it brings together ‘orders.’”
See id.
56 See id. at 70848.
18
security by sending messages to one or multiple potential respondents on the system
simultaneously. RFQ systems may be “disclosed,” in which case the participants with
established relationships interact only with each other, or anonymous, in which case the parties
may not have established relationships. The system provider requires a participant to enter
information in a message, which may include the name of the initiator, Committee on Uniform
Securities ldentification Procedures (“CUSIP”) number, side, and size. The system provider also
provides protocols for participants to communicate with each other and negotiate a price or size
of a trade. For example, participants receiving an RFQ message can choose to interact with the
initiator by responding within a time period designated by the system provider with a priced
quote. These methods can serve the same function as auctions where the respondents compete to
offer the best price. The initiator can then select among the quote responses that it wishes to
interact with through the system by either accepting one of multiple responses or rejecting all
responses within a period of time set by the system provider. The match of the request and
response results in an agreement to the terms of the trade between a buyer and a seller, which
then proceeds to post-trade processing.
57 An RFQ list protocol (“RFQ List”), which is a form of
RFQ protocol used commonly to trade U.S. Treasury Securities, may include a collection of
RFQ inquiries that are submitted as a group but priced as individual items.58 The RFQ List
(defined by each system provider but generally more than two listed items) may be executed in
 57 Communication Protocol Systems also may offer a workup functionality or blotter
scraping functionality to gather non-firm trading interest and facilitate the negotiation and
execution of trades. In a workup, a system may have a private phase, where the two
original contra-parties submitting orders can negotiate, and a public phase where all
subscribers can submit orders at the workup price.
58 An RFQ List may be referred to as a Bid Wanted in Competition (“BWIC”) or Offer
Wanted in Competition (“OWIC”) in the corporate bond market. Both serve a similar
purpose to the RFQ List in allowing the submitter to solicit bids and offers on a number
of securities at one time.
19
its entirety, in pieces, or not at all. A liquidity provider that is responding to the list request may
apply a “good for” time that is associated with the executable prices provided.
A Communication Protocol System could also include a system that electronically
displays continuous firm or non-firm trading interest, or “stream axes,” in a security or type of
security to participants on the system. Axes typically represent an indication of interest to sell or
buy a bond (but can include firm quotes), and can either serve as a starting point for negotiation
between participants or be executed immediately. Systems that stream axes take many forms.
Some system providers provide connectivity and protocols for participants to electronically
communicate and negotiate the terms of a trade. Other system providers offer participants more
automated processes, whereby participants auto-execute against a streamed quote and agree upon
the terms of a trade without negotiation. Typically, the system is programmed with permission
options to allow participants to decide who can or cannot receive their axes. In such a case, the
trading interest exchanged between the parties is typically firm and functions as orders.
Conditional order systems may be Communication Protocol Systems that offer the use of
trading interest that may not be executable until after a user takes subsequent action. For
example, a system provider may require conditional orders to contain a symbol, side, and size
and provide protocols for participants to send and receive invitation messages to trade. The
system would be designed for conditional orders to match with other trading interest, which can
either be a firm order or another non-firm conditional order.59 Upon a match, the system may
send a firm-up invitation messages to both participants. The system protocols may permit a
participant using a conditional order to either decline the firm-up invite, accept the firm-up
 59 Based on Commission staff experience, some NMS Stock ATSs disclose protocols to
allow conditional orders to interact with the ATS’s limit order book, thereby increasing
the interaction among potential buyers and sellers and access to liquidity.
20
invite, or counter the response to firm up.60 During the time that the parties’ trading interest is
matched until the invitation to firm-up expires, is canceled, is executed, or is declined, the
system protocols may require that the non-firm trading interest be committed and the shares
cannot trade elsewhere.61 Using the system protocols, the matched parties can modify the
attributes of the non-firm trading interest (i.e., price, size) before accepting the firm-up
invitation. To the extent either a seller or buyer changes the attributes, an execution will only
occur if each contra-party’s corresponding attributes will still be met. If both matching parties
accept the firm-up invite, the parties would agree upon the terms of the trade and an execution
would occur.
Other systems have developed to bring together buyers and sellers of securities through
the use of bilateral negotiation protocols and non-firm trading interest. Negotiation systems
focus on providing a forum for buyers and sellers to see displayed non-firm trading interest,
access liquidity, find a counterparty, and negotiate a trade through the use of their
communication technology. The system may allow participants to select certain pre-approved
participants and then exchange messages for purposes of agreeing to the terms of a trade.
Negotiation systems may have fewer parameters for communicating trading interest than RFQ
protocols; for example, negotiation systems provide features that are designed to prompt
participants to interact with each other and provide parameters around that interaction, such as

60 An order resting on an ATS limit order book that can interact with a conditional order
does not receive a firm-up invite and therefore does not send firm-up responses.
61 Many conditional order and RFQ systems monitor their participants’ firm-up rates and
may limit or deny the use of the system by a participant if the participant’s firm-up rate
falls below a certain percentage. While the system provider typically monitors these
firm-up rates to help ensure that participants do not abuse the system, such monitoring
and actions taken against participants for not firming-up may incentivize participants to
not back away. Thus, conditional orders or RFQs can be firm in practice and in this way
may meet the definition of order under current Regulation ATS. See 17 CFR 242.300(e)
(“any firm indication of a willingness to buy or sell a security”).
21
time for responses or requirements on the content of the message. A system may “scrape” or
obtain the symbol of trading interest that a participant is seeking from the participant’s order
management or execution management system and use that to alert other participants on its
system about potential contra-side interest in seeking to initiate a negotiation. The market
participants using negotiation systems may complete a transaction outside of the system.
As trading in securities has become more electronic, Communication Protocol Systems
perform the function of a market place and have become a preferred method for market
participants to discover prices, find a counterparty, and execute a trade, particularly for
government securities and other fixed income markets. One commenter on the 2020 Proposal
and Concept Release, for example, stated that multilateral trading venues using RFQ protocols
are some of the most significant multilateral trading venues operating in fixed income markets
regulated by the Commission, including the U.S. Treasury market.62 This commenter stated that
RFQ trading venues dominate the dealer-to-customer segment of the U.S. Treasury market and
in the aggregate account for approximately 50 percent of total electronic trading volume on
multilateral U.S. Treasury trading venues.63 Another large electronic trading venue for fixed
income products estimated that its average daily volume using an RFQ protocol increased from
$223 million in the second quarter of 2017 to $1.17 billion in the second quarter of 2021.64
Systems offering conditional order protocols have increased over the past several years,
particularly for trading NMS stocks. Today, 26 NMS Stock ATSs have disclosed on their public

62 See Citadel Letter at 1-2.
63 See id. This commenter noted that multilateral RFQ trading venues are formally
registered in other asset classes and jurisdictions, and that there are “well-established
precedents” to delineate the scope of multilateral trading venues subject to regulation.
64 Tradeweb Investor Presentation, July 2021, available at:
https://investors.tradeweb.com/static-files/e63caabf-d71d-46c0-9589-353fb8b93388.
22
Form ATS-N that they send or receive messages indicating trading interest, such as conditional
orders.
Communication Protocol Systems, like registered exchanges and ATSs, offer their
participants several benefits, including reducing counterparty search costs, bringing together
diverse market participants, and making it efficient and simple to find a counterparty and agree
upon the terms of a trade. These systems improve price discovery from the voice protocols that
were used more widely in the fixed income market in the past by offering participants systems
and protocols that are specifically designed to allow participants to contact, and receive
responses from, multiple potential counterparties at one time, as opposed to the more timeconsuming process of calling each potential counterparty individually. RFQ protocols, for
example, allow an initiator to share and attempt to trade its entire trading interest all at once. In
contrast, under a limit order book model, for example, the seeker of liquidity may find it can only
execute its trading interest in a piecemeal fashion. RFQs also allow initiators to more easily
demonstrate that they attempted to achieve best execution by showing that the initiator sent
requests for quotes to multiple dealers for a security. In addition, participants may find
conditional orders attractive when seeking to trade at size or to avoid information leakage.
While Communication Protocol Systems may bring together buyers and sellers for all
types of securities and allow participants to negotiate a trade, they are particularly useful to
market participants to trade less liquid securities, find counterparties for large size trades, and
minimize information leakage and adverse impact of large size trades. For example, market
participants can use Communication Protocol Systems to post and see non-firm trading interest
on several trading venues simultaneously, thereby increasing their ability to find a counterparty
and reduce search costs. When resting non-firm trading interest on a trading venue, market
23
participants can use non-firm trading interest as a tool to avoid the risk of double-execution.65
Participants that use conditional orders, for example, may place the same trading interest at
various trading centers in search of liquidity because it would allow them to accept or decline
responses if they receive more than one. Participants may find locating a counterparty on a limit
order book system for less liquid securities more difficult and choose instead to use a
Communication Protocol System, such as an RFQ system, because such system allows the
initiating participant to use non-firm trading interest to solicit quotes from multiple market
participants for less liquid securities and negotiate a size or price for such securities.
3. Lack of Investor Protections and Disparate Regulation among Market Places
Given the changes in methods for bringing buyers and sellers together over the past
couple of decades, the contrast between market place functions of exchanges that offer the use of
orders and trading facilities and systems that offer the use of trading interest and protocols has
become increasingly blurred. Both types of systems share the same business objectives and
engage in similar market activities; however, one type of system is subject to the exchange
regulatory framework while the other is not.66 Today, Communication Protocol Systems
perform similar market place functions as registered exchanges and ATSs and have become
venues for investors to discover prices, find a counterparty, and agree upon the terms of a trade.

65 For example, a market participant that rests the same non-firm trading interest on two
trading venues has the ability to back away from one if both are lifted (i.e., preliminarily
matched). In such case, the market participant is able to complete one trade and cancel or
back away from the other.
66 See U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission Fixed Income Market Structure Advisory
Committee (“FIMSAC”), Recommendation for the SEC to Review the Framework for
the Oversight of Electronic Trading Platforms for Corporate and Municipal Bonds (July
16, 2018), available at https://www.sec.gov/spotlight/fixed-income-advisorycommittee/fimsac-electronic-trading-platforms-recommendation.pdf (expressing concern
about regulatory harmonization among fixed income trading platforms, recognizing that
some firms were regulated as ATSs, while some were regulated as broker-dealers or not
regulated at all).
24
Because Communication Protocol Systems do not fall within the definition of “exchange” and
are thus not required to register as national securities exchanges, they are not required to comply
with the same Federal securities laws and regulations applicable to registered exchanges67 or
ATSs.68 Market participants use Communication Protocol Systems for certain advantages that
these market places offer for trading securities; however, when doing so, market participants
cannot avail themselves of the same investor protections, fair and orderly market principles, and
Commission oversight that apply to today’s registered exchanges or ATSs.69 This regulatory gap
also creates disparities that affect competitive balances among like market places for securities.70
Consistent with the statutory definition of “exchange” in Exchange Act Section 3(a)(1), and as
discussed above, today Communication Protocol Systems provide a “market place” for bringing
together purchasers and sellers of securities.71 The current proposal will use the flexibility
granted to the Commission by Congress to update Exchange Act Rule 3b-16 to address these
developments in the markets for securities, the corresponding lack of investor protections, and
disparate regulation among these markets.
72

67 See infra Section II.D.1.
68 See infra Section II.D.2.
69 See infra Section II.D.
70 See infra Section VIII.C.3.a.
71 See supra Section II.A.
72 The Commission is not proposing to amend Exchange Act Rule 3b-16(b), which excludes
from the definition of “exchange” systems that perform only traditional broker-dealer
activities, including: systems that route orders to a national securities exchange, a market
operated by a national securities association, a broker-dealer for execution, or systems
that allow persons to enter orders for execution against the bids and offers of a single
dealer if certain additional conditions are met. These systems would continue to not fall
within the definition of “exchange.” As discussed below, and consistent with the
Commission’s views expressed in the Regulation ATS Adopting Release, a brokerdealer’s exercise of discretion and judgment over its customers’ orders or trading interest
does not make the broker-dealer an exchange. See Regulation ATS Adopting Release,
supra note 31, at 70851. See also infra Section II.C.3. The Commission is proposing to
add an exclusion to Rule 3b-16(a) for systems that allow issuers to sell their own
25
Including Communication Protocol Systems within the definition of “exchange” would
provide market participants that use these market places with the investor protections, fair and
orderly market principles, and Commission oversight provided by the exchange regulatory
framework.
73 A Communication Protocol System that chooses to register as an exchange would
be an SRO and be subject to the requirements of Section 6 of the Exchange Act, as discussed
further below.
74 However, the Commission expects that many Communication Protocol Systems
would choose instead to comply with the conditions of the Regulation ATS exemption, which
includes registering as a broker-dealer.
75 As discussed further below, Communication Protocol
Systems complying with Regulation ATS would also be subject to the Regulation ATS investor
protection provisions, including the requirement to establish written safeguards and procedures
to protect confidential subscriber trading information76 and operational transparency
requirements of Form ATS-N for ATSs that trade NMS stocks or government securities or
repos.77 They would also be subject to fair and orderly markets provisions under the Fair Access
Rule.78 Registering as a broker-dealer would subject a Communication Protocol System to

securities to investors. See infra Section II.C.2. Further, as explained below, the
Commission is not proposing to include within the definition of “exchange” a system that
unilaterally displays trading interest without offering a trading facility or communication
protocols to bring together buyers and sellers. Also, systems that provide general
connectivity for persons to communicate without protocols, such as utilities or electronic
web chat providers, would not fall within the definition of exchange. See id.
73 See infra Section II.D.
74 See infra Section II.D.1.
75 See infra Section II.D.2.
76 See infra note 170 and accompanying text.
77 See infra notes 139-142 and accompanying text. A Communication Protocol System that
operates as an ATS but trades securities other than NMS stocks or government securities
would file Form ATS.
78 See infra notes 154-155 and accompanying text.
26
Commission and Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (“FINRA”) oversight.
79 As a FINRA
member, the Communication Protocol System would be subject to FINRA’s investor protection
and examination and market surveillance programs and would be required to comply with
FINRA’s trade reporting rules.
The proposal to include Communication Protocol Systems within the definition of
exchange would promote competition by reducing cost disparities and creating a more level
competitive landscape.80 Several commenters in response to the Concept Release expressed
concerns regarding the disparity in regulatory treatment between exchanges, ATSs, and other
fixed income platforms.81 In addition, FIMSAC expressed concern about the lack of regulatory
harmonization among fixed income electronic trading platforms, recognizing that some firms are
regulated as ATSs, while others are regulated as broker-dealers or not at all, and stated that these
distinctions in regulatory oversight complicate efforts to improve the efficiency and resiliency of
the fixed income electronic trading markets.82 In response to the Concept Release, one
commenter stated that the current regulatory framework puts ATSs at a competitive disadvantage
to non-ATS trading platforms, which are not subject to the same regulatory obligations designed

79 See infra notes 131-133 and accompanying text.
80 See infra Section VIII.C.3.a.
81 See, e.g., ICE Bonds Letter II at 2-4; Citadel Letter at 2; MFA Letter at 6 (suggesting that
to ensure that similarly situated entities are treated similarly in the trading of government
securities, the Commission should review the appropriateness of similar regulation on
multiple-to-multiple trading venues with significant volume); MarketAxess Letter at 1
(stating that there should be a common regulatory framework for all multilateral fixed
income electronic trading platforms that requires minimum standards of conduct and
oversight in areas such as trade reporting, resiliency, cyber-security, operational
reporting, financial standards, examination, surveillance, and confidentiality).
82 See supra note 66. The FIMSAC concerns were highlighted by the Commission in the
Concept Release.
27
to protect investors and the integrity of the fixed income markets.
83 Another commenter stated
its belief that disparate regulatory treatment across trading platforms impacts market efficiency
and competition and introduces potential resiliency risks.
84 Another commenter stated that
electronic platforms for bringing together buyers and sellers of fixed income securities for the
purpose of effecting transactions should generally be regulated the same regardless of how they
are structured internally.85 The Commission recognizes that the regulatory costs associated with
registering and operating as a registered exchange are higher than the regulatory costs associated
with registering as a broker-dealer and complying with Regulation ATS. However,
Communication Protocol Systems operating outside the exchange regulatory framework are
subject to neither national securities exchange nor ATS regulatory costs and therefore have an
advantage when competing against other markets that also bring together buyers and sellers of
securities.86 As discussed further in Section VIII, a trading system that performs an exchange
market function but is not subject to the exchange regulatory regime could receive a competitive
advantage because such systems are not subject to the compliance costs to which regulated
exchanges are subject.

83 See ICE Bonds Letter II at 4 (stating that the benefits of subjecting non-ATS trading
platforms to the same regulatory obligations as current ATSs will be substantial).
84 See FIA PTG Letter at 2. See also Citadel Letter at 2 (stating that excluding multilateral
RFQ platforms from the current regulatory framework creates an unlevel regulatory
field).
85 See letter from Michael Decker, Senior Vice President for Public Policy, Bond Dealers of
America, dated March 1, 2021 (“BDA Letter”) at 2. See also FINRA Letter at 6-10
(noting inconsistent regulatory treatment among electronic and hybrid fixed income
trading platforms, as well as potential regulatory gaps, flowing in part from the
definitions and guidance adopted in 1998 in Regulation ATS). The commenter stated its
belief that it would be beneficial for the Commission to provide guidance that specifically
addresses the characteristics of RFQ trading systems and evaluate whether they meet the
“exchange” definition for purposes of Regulation ATS.
86 See infra Section VIII.C.3.a.i.
28
Amending Exchange Act Rule 3b-16(a) to include non-firm trading interest would
eliminate the possibility that systems may offer the use of non-firm trading interest that, in
practice, functions as firm orders, so as to avoid exchange registration or complying with
Regulation ATS. In the Regulation ATS Adopting Release, the Commission expressed concern
that system providers may label trading interest that is firm in practice as non-firm.87 The
providers of such systems may take the position that their systems arguably do not use “orders”
and thus do not fall within the criteria of Rule 3b-16. For example, systems that offer the use of
non-firm trading interest may monitor participants’ firm-up rates in response to a quote they
received and may penalize a participant with a low firm-up rate either economically or by
limiting its ability to use features of its system. Such activities could cause participants on the
systems to believe that trading interest that they submit or receive is effectively firm and affect
their behavior on the system. The difference between what is a firm order and what is not
requires careful scrutiny of the design of the system, the trading interest offered, and what
actually takes place among buyers and sellers interacting on the systems. The Commission
believes, however, that the use of firm or non-firm trading interest by a system should no longer
be a factor in determining whether a system performs the function of a market place because
both firm and non-firm trading interest can be used by a system with the same purpose and effect
to bring together buyers and sellers of securities.
88
Finally, for clarity, Exchange Act Rule 3b-16(a) would continue to encompass systems
that make available for trading any type of security. The definition of “exchange” under Section
3(a)(1) of the Exchange Act and current Exchange Act Rule 3b-16(a) applies to all securities,
including government securities, corporate bonds, municipal securities, NMS stocks, equity

87 See Regulation ATS Adopting Release, supra note 31, at 70850.
88 See supra Section II.B.2.
29
securities that are not NMS stocks, private restricted securities, repurchase agreements and
reverse repurchase agreements, foreign sovereign debt, and options, and does not exempt or
exclude any security or type of securities. The Commission believes that it is important for any
system that falls within the criteria of Rule 3b-16(a) to be subject to the exchange regulatory
framework, notwithstanding how thinly traded or novel a security may be, and participants on
such systems should be able to avail themselves of the same benefits that participants on
registered exchanges or ATSs receive. Accordingly, the proposed amendments to Rule 3b-16(a)
do not change the Commission’s interpretation of the statutory definition of “exchange”—that is,
it applies to all securities.
The Commission received several comments in response to the Concept Release
expressing reservations about revising Exchange Act Rule 3b-16 to include certain fixed income
markets within the definition of exchange. One commenter stated that doing so would insert
unnecessary intermediation between dealers and their customers and threaten to distort the
market structure by creating a one-size-fits-all approach that is biased against the trading of lessliquid instruments, damaging liquidity formation.89 Another commenter expressed concern
about the Commission creating additional regulatory obligations in the fixed income space and
believed the Commission should undertake a more in-depth review of fixed income trading,
engage in discussion with the industry, and outline the problems that any proposed regulations
are intended to solve before moving forward with any such regulatory proposal.90 Likewise,
another commenter stated its belief that the Commission should not impose Regulation ATS and
the current exchange framework on existing and emerging electronic trading protocols and

89 See Bloomberg Letter at 17-20. This commenter specifically cited RFQs as a new
protocol that has helped in discovering less liquid instruments.
90 See SIFMA Letter at 11. The commenter stated its belief that systems that merely act as
informational conduits should remain outside the scope of Regulation ATS.
30
functionalities that do not meet the existing definition of an ATS or an exchange91 because such
rules are better suited for regulating systems and trading practices in the equity markets.92 In
addition, one commenter stated that there are a variety of trading protocols that have developed
within the fixed income market – such as those that are primarily order-driven (such as retailfocused order books) and others that are driven by price requests (such as RFQs) – and that the
market continues to innovate.93 This commenter stated its belief that the Commission should
take into account these distinctions and apply a lighter regulatory approach in order to avoid
stifling innovation.94
The Commission notes that these comments focused on the fixed income market
exclusively. However, these comments have aided in the formulation of this proposal for
revising the Commission interpretation of the definition of “exchange,” and the Commission
looks forward to receiving more comments to aid in its deliberations. As a preliminary response
to the comment letters summarized in this section, the Commission does not believe that the
proposed amendments to Exchange Act Rule 3b-16 would create a one-size-fits-all model,
imposing unnecessary intermediation between dealers and their customers,95 or import concepts
from the equity markets onto emerging electronic trading protocols that would damage the
market structure in the fixed income markets.96 Form ATS and Form ATS-N do not impose or
favor any specific market structure or manner of trading, and the Commission is proposing to

91 See ICI Letter at 2, 7. This commenter stated that, for example, tools that facilitate traderelated communications between market participants should not be subject to rules that
are better-suited for order book protocols.
92 See id. at 8.
93 See MarketAxess Letter at 2-4.
94 See id.
95 See Bloomberg Letter at 17-20.
96 See ICI Letter at 8.
31
amend Form ATS-N to accommodate the operations of Communication Protocol Systems.
Further, the Commission preliminarily does not believe that regulating fixed income systems, or
systems for other asset classes of securities, under the exchange regulatory framework,
particularly Regulation ATS, would stifle innovation or be biased against less-liquid instruments
using an RFQ protocol. Regulation ATS is designed to be flexible enough to accommodate the
evolving technology of ATSs and allow for systems to continue to innovate without the
regulatory obligations of registered exchanges, which are SROs.
97 In the years since its adoption
in 1998, many systems that chose to operate under the Regulation ATS exemption have had
varied business models, including offering RFQ protocols as part of their overall ATS services,
for trading different types of securities, including, among others, government securities,
corporate bonds, municipal securities, NMS stocks, equity securities that are not NMS stocks,
private restricted securities, repurchase agreements and reverse repurchase agreements, foreign
sovereign debt, and options.
The Commission seeks public comment on all aspects its proposal to amend Exchange
Act Rule 3b-16(a), the Communication Protocol Systems that would fall within the definition of
“exchange,” and the existing exchange regulatory requirements that would apply to a
Communication Protocol System.
C. Proposed Amendments to Exchange Act Rule 3b-16
Today, Exchange Act Rule 3b-16 provides that an organization, association, or group of
persons meets the definition of “exchange” if it doesn’t meet one of the exceptions of the rule
and it: (1) brings together the orders for securities of multiple buyers and sellers; and (2) uses
established, non-discretionary methods (whether by providing a trading facility or by setting

97 See Regulation ATS Adopting Release, supra note 31, at 70846.
32
rules) under which such orders interact with each other, and the buyers and sellers entering such
orders agree to the terms of the trade.
The Commission is proposing to amend Exchange Act Rule 3b-16 to, among other things,
include non-firm indications of a willingness to buy or sell a security, in addition to orders,
within the interpretation, define “trading interest,” add “communication protocols” as an
established method that an organization, association, or group of persons can provide to bring
together buyers and sellers of securities, simplify and align the rule text with the statutory
definition of exchange under Section 3(a)(1) of the Exchange Act, and add an exclusion under
Exchange Act Rule 3b-16(b). Accordingly, the Commission is proposing to amend Exchange
Act Rule 3b-16 to provide that an organization, association, or group of persons would be
considered to constitute, maintain, or provide an exchange if it is not subject to an exception
under Rule 3b-16(b) and it: (1) brings together buyers and sellers of securities using trading
interest; and (2) makes available established, non-discretionary methods (whether by providing a
trading facility or communication protocols, or by setting rules) under which buyers and sellers
can interact and agree to the terms of a trade.
1. Trading Interest; Brings Together Buyers and Sellers
The Commission is proposing to add a definition of the term “trading interest” to
Exchange Act Rule 3b-16 and amend the rule to replace “orders” with “trading interest.” The
definition of trading interest would allow for clear and consistent application of the revised
functional test for “exchange” under Rule 3b-16.
Under the proposal, Exchange Act Rule 3b-16(a) would continue to apply to systems that
use orders, as that term is currently defined and applied in Rule 3b-16(c), to bring together
buyers and sellers because the term “orders” would be included in the definition of “trading
interest.” “Trading interest,” as proposed, would include “orders,” as the term is defined under
Rule 3b-16(c), or any non-firm indication of a willingness to buy or sell a security that identifies
33
at least the security and either quantity, direction (buy or sell), or price.98 Based on Commission
staff experience, generally, trading systems have offered non-firm trading interest that included
the symbol and one of the following: quantity, direction, or price. For example, a message that
is sent to system participants for an NMS stock that only identifies the NMS stock symbol and
quantity that the participant seeks to trade would be considered trading interest. A message sent
by a participant of a corporate bond system to five potential counterparties that only identifies
the CUSIP for a bond and an instruction to buy would be considered trading interest, as
proposed, because it contains the symbol and direction. If the same initiating participant only
provided the symbol and requested a two-sided quote in response, the response would constitute
trading interest as it would identify the symbol and a price. Indeed, Commission staff has
observed that ATSs that offer a negotiation functionality to bring together buyers and sellers
offer the use of non-firm trading interest that includes the symbol and one of the following:
quantity, direction, or price. In addition, there are instances where systems offer the use of nonfirm trading interest, such as an indication of interest, that includes the symbol and direction but
does not explicitly include a quantity or price, which can be inferred from the facts and
circumstances accompanying the trading interest.99 The Commission believes that a system that
offers the use of a message that identifies the security and either the quantity, direction, or price
would provide sufficient information to bring together buyers and sellers of securities because it
allows a market participant to communicate its intent to trade and a reasonable person receiving

98 In conjunction with adding the defined term “trading interest” to Rule 3b-16, the
Commission is proposing to add the definition of “trading interest” to Rule 300 of
Regulation ATS. See proposed Rule 300(q). In addition, to encompass persons who
transact in trading interest, and not only orders, the Commission is also proposing to
change the definition of “Subscriber” in Rule 300(b) to include any person submitting,
disseminating, or displaying “trading interest.” See Rule 300(b), as proposed to be
revised.
99 See Regulation ATS Adopting Release, supra note 31, at 70850.
34
the information to decide whether to trade or engage in further communications with the
sender.
100
On the other hand, the Commission preliminarily believes that a message that only
indicates the security to be traded without more information would not be trading interest and a
system that only offers the use of such messages would be unlikely to bring together buyers and
sellers and does not warrant the regulatory oversight accompanying classification as an
exchange. Nevertheless, if a system is designed to permit an initiating participant to submit a
message that only contains a symbol, yet a responding participant can submit a message that
contains a symbol and either quantity, direction, or price that the initiator can accept, the
message by the responding participant and acceptance by the initiator would be trading interest
because each of these contain the symbol and at least direction, size, or price. As proposed, the
revised criteria of Exchange Act Rule 3b-16(a) that include “trading interest,” as defined herein,
would capture the vast majority of systems that bring together buyers and sellers to agree to the
terms of a trade despite not including systems where solely the security is identified. If adopted,
however, the Commission would continue to monitor market developments to ascertain whether
such systems may warrant further regulation in the future.
The Commission is also proposing to amend Rule 3b-16(a)(1) to change the reference to
a system that “brings together the orders” to “brings together buyers and sellers of securities
using trading interest.” Systems that use non-firm trading interest allow participants to
communicate their trading intentions, either on a bilateral or multilateral basis, to negotiate a
trade. Unlike orders, non-firm trading interest typically does not interact with other non-firm
 100 A system that uses trading interest to bring together buyers and sellers would not meet
the definition of “exchange,” however, unless it also met all the elements of Rule 3b16(a), including the element “makes available established, non-discretionary methods
(whether by providing a trading facility or communication protocols, or by setting rules)
under which buyers and sellers can interact and agree to the terms of a trade.”
35
trading interest without further action by the potential counterparties. Rather, the potential
counterparties submitting non-firm trading interest interact with each other through the use of
communication protocols. To provide for the use of both firm order interaction and participants’
interaction through non-firm trading interest, the Commission is proposing to amend Rule 3b16(a) to replace “brings together orders” with “brings together buyers and sellers of securities
using trading interest.” The phrase “brings together buyers and sellers of securities using trading
interest” still captures systems that use orders. The Commission is not proposing to change the
meaning of “to bring together” as defined in the Regulation ATS Adopting Release101 nor is the
Commission proposing to exclude from Rule 3b-16(a) systems that use orders to bring together
buyers and sellers of securities—such systems would still be subject to Rule 3b-16.
The Commission is proposing to amend Exchange Act Rule 3b-16(a)(2) to simplify the
rule text and align the rule text with the proposed changes to Rule 3b-16(a)(1). Specifically, the
Commission is proposing to replace “under which such orders interact with each other and the
buyers and sellers entering such orders agree to the terms of a trade” with “under which buyers
and sellers can interact and agree to the terms of a trade.” As explained above, because the
Commission is proposing to amend Rule 3b-16(a) to include trading interest, and is no longer
limiting the application of the rule to orders, the focus on “interaction” should be between buyers
and sellers rather than orders. For similar reasons, the Commission is proposing to delete from
the rule text the phrase “the buyers and sellers entering such orders.” This proposed change is
designed to simplify the rule text and remove the reference to orders because the proposed
amendments to Rule 3b-16(a) also include non-firm trading interest in addition to orders.
2. Multiple; Exclusion for Issuer Systems

101 See id. at 70849.
36
The Commission is proposing to remove the reference to securities of “multiple” buyers
and sellers from Exchange Act Rule 3b-16(a)(1) and is proposing to codify in Rule 3b-16(b)(3)
an example the Commission provided in the Regulation ATS Adopting Release for systems that
allow issuers to sell their own securities to investors. These proposed changes are not intended
to change the existing scope of Rule 3b-16(a) but only to clarify its application.
The term “multiple” was added to Rule 3b-16(a) to help reinforce that single counterparty
systems were not included in the definition of “exchange.”102 These systems primarily included
systems used by issuers to sell their own securities and systems used by market makers
registered with an SRO, which are currently specifically excluded from Rule 3b-16(a) under
Rule 3b-16(b)(2). The Commission believes that the term “multiple” could be misconstrued to
mean that RFQ systems, for example, do not meet the criteria of Rule 3b-16(a) because a
transaction request typically involves one buyer and multiple sellers or one seller and multiple
buyers.103
Under current Rule 3b-16(a), whether a system meets the “multiple” prong depends on
whether the system, when viewed in its entirety, includes more than one buyer and more than
one seller and is not determined on a transaction-by-transaction basis. A system, such as an RFQ
system, that is designed to provide the ability of more than one buyer to request quotes from
more than one seller in securities at the same or different times would meet the “multiple” prong
of Rule 3b-16(a) because such systems do not include a single counterparty.104 Because RFQ

102 See id.
103 One commenter on the 2020 Proposal and Concept Release stated its belief that RFQ
platforms do not meet the criteria of Rule 3b-16 because such platforms do not offer
“multiple-to-multiple” order interaction among participants and that the RFQ platforms
instead facilitate trading between an individual market participant (requester) and
potential liquidity providers (responders). See ICI Letter at 2, 7.
104 The mere interpositioning of a designated counterparty to provide for the anonymity of
counterparties to a trade or for settlement purposes after the purchasing and selling
37
systems have more than one buyer and more than one seller, such systems do not have a single
counterparty and thus would meet the standard of “multiple buyers and sellers” under Rule 3b16(a)(1). Nevertheless, removing the term “multiple” would mitigate confusion and the potential
to misconstrue the application of Rule 3b-16(a) to systems with non-firm trading interest,
including RFQ systems, and aligns the rule with the statutory definition of “exchange.”105
The Commission is proposing to amend Rule 3b-16(b) to add an exclusion from Rule 3b16(a) for systems that allow an issuer to sell its securities to investors. The Commission stated in
the Regulation ATS Adopting Release that systems for issuers to sell their own securities would
not fall within Rule 3b-16(a) because such systems have a single counterparty that is selling its
securities.106 The Commission continues to believe that such systems do not meet the criteria of
Rule 3b-16(a) because the systems do not bring together multiple buyers and multiple sellers.
Given the proposal to remove the term “multiple” from Rule 3b-16(a)(1), adding the exclusion
for issuer systems would clarify that such systems do not fall within the criteria of Rule 3b-16(a).
3. Established Methods; Communication Protocols
The Commission is proposing to amend Rule 3b-16(a)(2) to replace “uses established,
non-discretionary methods” with the phrase “makes available established, non-discretionary
methods.” The proposed change to use the word “makes available” rather than “uses” is
designed to capture established, non-discretionary methods that an organization, association, or
group of persons may provide, whether directly or indirectly, for buyers and sellers to interact

counterparties to a trade have been matched would not, by itself, mean the system does
not have multiple buyers and sellers. See Regulation ATS Adopting Release, supra note
31, at 70849.
105 The use of plural terms in “buyers and sellers” in Rule 3b-16(a) and “purchasers and
sellers” (emphasis added) in the statutory definition of “exchange” makes sufficiently
clear that an exchange need only have more than one buyer and more than one seller
participating on the system to meet this prong.
106 See supra note 102 and accompanying text.
38
and agree upon terms of a trade. In contrast to the term “uses,” the Commission believes the
term “makes available” would be applicable to Communication Protocol Systems because such
systems take a more passive role in providing to their participants the means and protocols to
interact, negotiate, and come to an agreement.
The term “makes available” is also intended to make clear that, in the event that a party
other than the organization, association, or group of persons performs a function of the exchange,
the function performed by that party would still be captured for purposes of determining the
scope of the exchange under Exchange Act Rule 3b-16. In the Regulation ATS Adopting
Release, the Commission stated that it will attribute the activities of a trading facility to a system
if that facility is offered by the system directly or indirectly (such as where a system arranges for
a third party or parties to offer the trading facility).107 The Commission has further recognized
how a system may consist of various functionalities, mechanisms, or protocols that operate
collectively to bring together the orders for securities of multiple buyers and sellers using nondiscretionary methods under the criteria of Rule 3b-16(a), and how, in some circumstances, these
various functionalities, mechanisms, or protocols may be offered or performed by another
business unit of the registered broker-dealer or government securities broker or government
securities dealer that operates the ATS (“broker-dealer operator”) or by a separate entity.108
These principles equally apply to an organization, association, or group of persons that arranges
with another party to provide, for example, a trading facility or communication protocols, or
parts thereof, to bring together buyers and sellers and perform a function of a system under Rule
3b-16. Using the term “makes available” will help ensure that the investor protection and fair

107 See Regulation ATS Adopting Release, supra note 31, at 70852.
108 See NMS Stock ATS Adopting Release, supra note 2, at 38844 (citing Regulation ATS
Adopting Release, 63 FR 70852).
39
and orderly markets provisions of the exchange regulatory framework apply to all the activities
that consist of the system that meets the criteria of Rule 3b-16(a), notwithstanding whether those
activities are performed by a party other than the organization that is providing the market
place.
109
The Commission is not proposing to delete the term “non-discretionary” from Rule 3b16(a)(2). The term “non-discretionary” was added to Rule 3b-16(a)(2) to modify “methods” to
distinguish the activities of an exchange from the activities of a broker-dealer.
110 As discussed in
the Regulation ATS Adopting Release, broker-dealers exercise control, judgement, or discretion
over their customers’ orders or trading interests111 while an exchange operates pursuant to
programmed procedures or set rules and does not exercise discretion over orders or trading
interest entered into the system.112 The Commission continues to believe that the distinction
between an exchange and a broker-dealer explained in the Regulation ATS Adopting Release is
appropriate and the Commission is not proposing to amend Exchange Act Rule 3b-16(a) to
include activities of broker-dealers within the definition of “exchange.”113

109 Depending on the activities of the persons involved with the market place, a group of
persons, who may each perform a part of the 3b-16 system, can together provide,
constitute, or maintain a market place or facilities for bringing together purchasers and
sellers of securities and together meet the definition of exchange. In such a case, the
group of persons would have the regulatory responsibility for the exchange.
110 See Regulation ATS Adopting Release, supra note 31, at 70863.
111 See id. at 70851.
112 See id. at 70850.
113 If a system meets the criteria of Exchange Act Rule 3b-16(a) but includes in that system
the ability of the system operator to apply its discretion for handling trading interest,
these activities employing discretion by the system operator would be included in the
system that meets the criteria of Rule 3b-16(a) and be subject to Federal securities laws
and rules applicable to a registered exchange or ATS (including, for example,
requirements to provide disclosures about the system operator’s activities on Form ATS
or ATS-N and, if the ATS is subject to the Fair Access Rule, include in its written
standards why the activities of the system operator that result in the different treatment of
subscribers are fair and not unreasonably discriminatory).
40
The term “non-discretionary” should not be misconstrued to mean that a system does not
meet the definition of exchange if it permits buyers or sellers using the system to exercise
discretion with regard to the use of the system. Under current Rule 3b-16(a)(2), the phrase “uses
established, non-discretionary methods” applies to the organization, association, or group of
persons that provides the means—the trading facility or rules—under which orders interact.
Thus, an organization that meets the definition of “exchange” does not exercise any discretion in
the matching of buyers and sellers or their orders and buyers and sellers participating on an
exchange can use their own discretion in finding and selecting a counterparty.114 The phrase
“established, non-discretionary methods” continues to convey that the system provider is
providing the trading facility or communication protocols or setting rules and is not applying its
discretion in matching counterparties on the system.
115

114 One commenter on the 2020 Proposal and Concept Release stated their belief that “unlike
an ATS on which trading takes place on a non-discretionary basis, trading discretion is a
defining feature of these protocols; a requesting participant can choose the number and
identity of participants that will receive the RFQ, while participants who receive an RFQ
can choose whether to respond.” See ICI Letter at 7. See also Bloomberg Letter at 23
(describing that an RFQ “consists of discretionary directed order communication network
messaging” and stating its belief that such messaging is not an ATS function because
RFQs lack a non-discretionary commitment to trade) and MarketAxess Letter at n.2
(stating its belief that an RFQ trading requestor’s trading discretion puts the protocol
outside the requirement that the platform use “established, non-discretionary methods
under which such orders interact with each other”). The “established, non-discretionary
methods” element of Rule 3b-16(a)(2) pertains to the discretion applied by the system
provider to bring together buyers and sellers and not discretion that participants may
apply. For example, a system provider that matches buyers and sellers using its
judgement or discretion would not be using established, non-discretionary methods. As
the Commission stated in the Regulation ATS Adopting Release, where customers of a
broker-dealer exercise control over their own orders in a trading system operated by the
broker-dealer, that broker-dealer is unlikely to be viewed as using discretionary methods
in handling the order. See Regulation ATS Adopting Release, supra note 31, at 70851.
115 See id. (describing that, for example, the Commission does not believe that block trading
desks, which generally retain some discretion in determining how to execute a customer’s
order, and frequently commit capital to satisfy their customers’ needs, use established,
non-discretionary methods).
41
The Commission is proposing to amend Rule 3b-16(a)(2) to add “communication
protocols” as an established method that an organization, association, or group of persons can
provide to bring together buyers and sellers of securities. Systems that bring together buyers and
sellers of securities may function as exchange market places of securities without orders or a
trading facility for orders to interact. In the Commission’s experience, communication protocols,
which can be applied to various technologies and connectivity, generally use non-firm trading
interest as opposed to orders to prompt and guide buyers and sellers to communicate, negotiate,
and agree to the terms of the trade. For example, if an entity makes available a chat feature,
which requires certain information to be included in a chat message (e.g., price, quantity) and
sets parameters and structure designed for participants to communicate about buying or selling
securities, the system would have established communication protocols.
While Communication Protocol Systems may not match counterparties’ trading interest,
buyers and sellers using these can be brought together to interact, either on a bilateral or
multilateral basis, and agree upon the terms of the trade. Protocols that a system offers may take
many forms and could include: setting minimum criteria for what messages must contain;
setting time periods under which buyers and sellers must respond to messages; restricting the
number of persons a message can be sent to; limiting the types of securities about which buyers
and sellers can communicate; setting minimums on the size of the trading interest to be
negotiated; or organizing the presentation of trading interest, whether firm or non-firm, to
participants. These examples are not exhaustive, and the determination of whether the system
meets Rule 3b-16(a)(2) would depend on the particular facts and circumstances of each system.
42
Nevertheless, as proposed, the Commission would take an expansive view of what would
constitute “communication protocols” under this prong of Rule 3b-16(a).116
The Commission preliminarily believes that certain systems would not fall within the
criteria of Exchange Act Rule 3b-16(a), as proposed to be amended, because the organization,
association, or group of persons would not be considered to be providing a trading facility or
communication protocol and therefore would not be considered to be making available
established, non-discretionary methods under Rule 3b-16(a)(2).117 The Commission continues to

116 One commenter suggested a litmus test to assist the Commission in determining whether
a fixed-income trading platform for corporate bonds and municipal securities meets the
criteria that warrant registration as an exchange or ATS. According to the commenter,
the most relevant criteria were: whether the system provides multilateral trading,
whether the technology provider has any influence on picking the counterparties, whether
the system enables any sharing of real-time information across multiple counterparties,
whether the system provider has any access to real-time information, and whether the
transactions happen on the technology platform. See letter from Vijay Kedia, President
and CEO, FlexTrade Systems, dated March 1, 2021 (“FlexTrade Systems Letter”) at 2.
As discussed above, the Commission believes that conditions have changed whereby
systems that offer the use trading interest and protocols to bring together buyers and
sellers of securities perform an exchange market place function similar to systems that
offer the use of orders and trading facilities. As proposed, a Communication Protocol
System can still meet the criteria of Exchange Act Rule 3b-16 even if it has no role in
matching counterparties nor displays trading interest. In addition, neither the current rule
nor the proposed amendments require that, for a system to be an exchange, an execution
occur on the system; rather, that the buyers and sellers agree to the terms of the trade on
the system is sufficient. See Regulation ATS Adopting Release, supra note 31, at 70852
(stating “whether or not the actual execution of the order takes place on the system is not
a determining factor of whether the system falls under Rule 3b–16”). Also, applying
some of the criteria that the commenter suggested (whether system provider have any
access to real-time information; whether the transactions happen on the technology
platform) could result in the exclusion of certain RFQ platforms from the definition of
exchange.
117 To the extent that a system is currently operating consistently with the circumstances
described in a staff no-action letter, a system that falls within the scope of Rule 3b-16(a)
and seeks to rely on the ATS exemption would need to register as a broker-dealer to
comply with the broker-dealer registration requirement under Regulation ATS, regardless
of any prior staff statement. Upon the adoption of any final rule, some letters and other
staff statements, or portions thereof, may be moot, superseded, or otherwise inconsistent
with the final rule and, therefore, would be withdrawn or modified.
43
believe that systems that passively display trading interest, such as systems referred to in the
industry as bulletin boards, but do not provide means for buyers and sellers to contact each other
and agree to the terms of the trade on the system would not be encompassed by Rule 3b-16(a) as
proposed to be amended.118 For example, the Commission does not believe that a system that
unilaterally displays trading interest without offering a trading facility or communication
protocols to bring together buyers and sellers would be considered to be making available
established, non-discretionary methods.119 In the Regulation ATS Adopting Release, the
Commission stated that “[u]nless a system also establishes rules and operates a trading facility
under which subscribers can agree to the terms of their trades, the system will not be included
within Rule 3b-16 even if it brings together ‘orders.’”120 These systems may display trading
interest to potential buyers and sellers, but the system provider is not making available
established methods for buyers and sellers to interact and agree upon terms of a trade. If
adopted, however, the Commission would continue to monitor market developments to ascertain
whether such systems may warrant further regulation in the future.
Similarly, a system that displays trading interest and provides only connectivity among
participants without providing a trading facility to match orders or providing protocols for
participants to communicate and interact would not meet the criteria of Rule 3b-16(a) because
such system would not be considered to be making available established, non-discretionary
methods. For example, systems that only provide general connectivity for persons to

118 See Regulation ATS Adopting Release, supra note 31, at 70850. See also FINRA Letter
at 9-10 (requesting the Commission provide additional guidance on the regulatory
classification of bulletin boards).
119 See SIFMA Letter at 11 (stating that systems that merely act as informational conduits
should remain outside the scope of Regulation ATS); FlexTrade Systems Letter at 2-4
(stating that software vendors that provide functionality for displaying prices do not meet
the definition of an exchange).
120 See Regulation ATS Adopting Release, supra note 31, at 70850.
44
communicate without protocols, such as utilities or electronic web chat providers, would not fall
within the communication protocols prong of the proposed rule because such providers are not
specifically designed to bring together buyers and seller of securities or provide procedures or
parameters for buyers and sellers for securities to interact. To the extent that such systems are
designed for securities and provide communication protocols for buyers and sellers to interact
and agree to the terms of a trade, such systems would fall within the criteria of Exchange Act
Rule 3b-16(a) as proposed to be revised.
D. Exchange Registration or ATS Exemption for Communication Protocol Systems
under the Proposed Rules
The proposed amendments to Exchange Act Rule 3b-16(a) would scope Communication
Protocol Systems into the definition of “exchange,” in which case, the systems may decide
between registering as a national securities exchange or registering as a broker-dealer and
complying with Regulation ATS. The Commission believes that many Communication Protocol
Systems would likely choose to be regulated as an ATS because of the lighter regulatory
requirements imposed on them, as compared to the regulatory requirements of registered
exchanges, which are SROs. Unlike a national securities exchange, an ATS can trade any type
of security and its users are not limited to broker-dealers. In addition, an ATS is not an SRO, is
not subject to Section 6 of the Exchange Act, and does not require Commission approval for its
activities. Complying with Regulation ATS would therefore allow Communication Protocol
Systems more flexibility in the operation of their business than registering as an exchange.
121

121 ATSs have more flexibility in the operation of their business than exchanges insofar as
ATSs are not subject to Section 6 of the Exchange Act and are not required to comply
with the statutory standards with respect to unfair discrimination, burdens on
competition, and the equitable allocation of reasonable fees.
45
Further, many Communication Protocol Systems make available for trading fixed income
securities that are only traded over-the-counter and are not typically registered and approved for
listing on an exchange.
122 Unless a national securities exchange receives an exemption to trade
unregistered debt securities,123 it may only list and trade registered debt securities, whereas
Communication Protocol Systems need not receive such an exemption to trade unregistered debt
securities. Notwithstanding, the Commission discusses the regulatory requirements for both
regulatory alternatives below. The Commission is not proposing to make changes to the
regulatory structure for exchanges or the requirements for national securities exchanges. The
proposed changes to the regulatory requirements under Regulation ATS are discussed in more
detail below.124
1. National Securities Exchange Registration
A Communication Protocol System that chooses to register as a national securities
exchange would be required to do so pursuant to Sections 5 and 6 of the Exchange Act. A

122 Section 12(a) of the Exchange Act makes it unlawful for any member, broker, or dealer
to effect any transaction in any security (other than an exempted security) on a national
securities exchange unless a registration statement has been filed with the Commission
and is in effect as to such security for such exchange in accordance with the provisions of
the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations thereunder. 15 U.S.C. 78l(a). Section
12(b) of the Exchange Act, 15 U.S.C. 78l(b), contains procedures for the registration of
securities on a national securities exchange. Section 12(a) does not apply to an exchange
that the Commission has exempted from registration as a national securities exchange.
See, e.g., Securities Exchange Act Release No. 28899 (February 20, 1991), 56 FR 8377
(February 29, 1991). See also Regulation ATS Adopting Release, supra note 31, at
70886.
123 See, e.g., Securities Exchange Act Release No. 54767 (November 16, 2006), 71 FR
67680 (November 22, 2006) (SR-NYSE-2004-69) (issuing exemption permitting NYSE
to trade unregistered debt securities on its bonds platform, now known as NYSE Bonds).
124 See infra Section III.B.2 (discussing proposed changes to Rule 301(b)(1) of Regulation
ATS), Section IV (discussing proposed changes to Rule 304 and Form ATS-N), Section
V.A (discussing proposed changes to Rule 301(b)(5) and 301(b)(6)), and Section V.C
(discussing proposed changes to Rule 301(b)(2)(vii)).
46
national securities exchange is an SRO and must set standards of conduct for its members,
administer examinations for compliance with these standards, coordinate with other SROs with
respect to the dissemination of consolidated market data, and generally take responsibility for
enforcing its own rules and the provisions of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations
thereunder. Before a national securities exchange may commence operations, the Commission
must approve its application for registration filed on Form 1.125 Section 6(b) of the Exchange
Act requires, among other things, that the national securities exchange be so organized and have
the capacity to carry out the purposes of the Exchange Act and to comply and enforce
compliance by its members, and persons associated with its members, with the Federal securities
laws and the rules of the exchange.126 Pursuant to Section 6 of the Exchange Act, national
securities exchanges must establish rules that generally: (1) are designed to prevent fraud and
manipulation, promote just and equitable principles of trade, and protect investors and the public
interest; (2) provide for the equitable allocation of reasonable fees; (3) do not permit unfair
discrimination; (4) do not impose any unnecessary or inappropriate burden on competition; and
(5) with limited exceptions, allow any broker-dealer to become a member.127
After approval of its application for registration, a national securities exchange must file
with the Commission any proposed changes to its rules.128 The initial application on Form 1,
amendments thereto, and filings for proposed rule changes, in combination, publicly disclose
important information about national securities exchanges, such as trading services and fees.
The Commission’s order approving the application is also public. The Commission oversees the

125 See 15 U.S.C. 78f.
126 See Section 6(b)(1) of the Exchange Act, 15 U.S.C. 78f(b)(1). The Commission must
also find that the national securities exchange has rules that meet certain criteria. See
generally Exchange Act Section 6(b)(2) through (10), 15 U.S.C. 78f(b)(2) through (10).
127 See Section 6(b) of the Exchange Act.
128 See generally Section 19(b) of the Exchange Act, 15 U.S.C. 78s(b).
47
exchanges under the Exchange Act through, among other things, its examination authority under
Section 17, its enforcement authority under Sections 19(h)(1) and 21C, its authority to approve
and disapprove rules under Section 19(b), and its rulemaking authority under various Exchange
Act provisions. Under the Exchange Act, securities traded on a national securities exchange
must be registered with the Commission and approved for listing on an exchange. National
securities exchanges can only have broker-dealer members. As an SRO, a national securities
exchange enjoys certain unique benefits, such as limited immunity from private liability with
respect to its regulatory functions and the ability to receive consolidated revenue under the
national market system plans for equity market data (i.e., the Consolidated Tape Association
(CTA)/Consolidated Quotation (CQ) Plans and the Joint Self-Regulatory Organization Plan
Governing the Collection, Consolidation, and Dissemination of Quotation and Transaction
Information for Nasdaq-Listed Securities Traded on Exchanges on an Unlisted Trading
Privileges Basis (Nasdaq/UTP) Plan),129 among others.
2. Regulation ATS Exemption; Broker-Dealer Registration
A Communication Protocol System may choose to operate as an ATS pursuant to
Regulation ATS, which exempts an ATS from the definition of “exchange” on the condition that
the ATS is in compliance with the requirements of Regulation ATS. An ATS that fails to
comply with the requirements of Regulation ATS would no longer qualify for the ATS
exemption and thus risks operating as an unregistered exchange in violation of Section 5 of the
Exchange Act.
To operate under the exemption, an ATS must register as a broker-dealer under Exchange
Act Section 15 or as a government securities broker or government securities dealer under

129 Details and the history of each plan can be found at https://www.ctaplan.com/plans; and
https://www.utpplan.com.
48
Exchange Act Section 15C(a)(1)(A),130 and comply with the filing and conduct obligations
associated with being a registered broker-dealer, including membership in an SRO, such as
FINRA,131 and compliance with the SRO’s rules.132 Requiring Communication Protocol
Systems to register as broker-dealers and be a member of an SRO would ensure that they are
subject to SRO examination and market surveillance, trade reporting obligations, and certain
investor protection rules. Broker-dealer registration provides important investor protections
under the Federal securities laws and FINRA rules, such as: (1) various disclosure and
supervision obligations; (2) anti-money laundering obligations (including suspicious activity
reporting); (3) FINRA over-the-counter (“OTC”) trade reporting requirements, including
requirements to maintain membership in, or maintain an effective clearing arrangement with a
participant of, a clearing agency registered under the Exchange Act; and (4) Commission
examinations and FINRA examinations and surveillance of members and markets that its
members operate.
In addition, ATSs are subject to certain reporting and disclosure requirements, as
applicable. ATSs other than NMS Stock ATSs or, as proposed, Government Securities ATSs,
would be required, pursuant to Rule 301(b)(2) of Regulation ATS, to file an initial operation
report with the Commission on Form ATS133 at least 20 days before commencing operations or,

130 The Commission is proposing to amend Rule 301(b)(1) to allow an ATS to register as a
government securities broker or government securities dealer under Exchange Act
Section 15C(a)(1)(A). See infra notes 272-278 and accompanying text.
131 See Section 15(b)(8) of the Exchange Act; 15 U.S.C. 78o(b)(8).
132 See Regulation ATS Adopting Release, supra note 31, at 70903.
133 Form ATS and the Form ATS Instructions are available at
https://www.sec.gov/about/forms/formats.pdf. Form ATS would require, among other
things, that the ATS (other than a Government Securities ATS or NMS Stock ATS)
provide information about: classes of subscribers and differences in access to the
services offered by the ATS to different groups or classes of subscribers; securities the
ATS expects to trade; any entity other than the ATS involved in its operations; the
49
in the case of Newly Designated ATSs,
134 no later than 30 calendar days after the effective date
of any final rule.
135 Form ATS provides the Commission with the opportunity to identify
problems that might impact investors before the system begins to operate.136 Unlike a Form 1
filed by a national securities exchange, a Form ATS is not approved by the Commission.137

manner in which the system operates; how subscribers access the trading system;
procedures governing entry of trading interest and execution; and trade reporting,
clearance and settlement of trades on the ATS. See infra Section V.B (describing
proposed changes to Form ATS). Regulation ATS provides that a report on Form ATS or
Form ATS-R shall be considered filed upon receipt by the Division of Trading and
Markets, at the Commission’s principal office in Washington, DC (i.e., in paper form),
and that information filed by an ATS on Form ATS is deemed confidential when filed.
See 17 CFR 242.301(b)(2)(vii). See also infra Section V.C.
134 “Newly Designated ATSs” would be defined as ATSs operating as of the effective date
of any final rule that meet the criteria under Rule 3b-16(a) as of the effective date of any
final rule but did not meet the criteria under Rule 3b-16(a) in effect prior to the effective
date of any final rule. See Rule 300(r).
135 See infra note 180 and accompanying text. The Commission is also proposing changes to
Rule 301(b)(2)(i) to clarify that the requirement to file Form ATS does not apply to
Covered ATSs or Covered Newly Designated ATSs. See proposed Rule 301(b)(2)(i).
See also proposed Rule 300(s) (defining “Covered Newly Designated ATS”).
136 See Regulation ATS Adopting Release, supra note 31, at 70864.
137 Form ATS provides the Commission with notice about an ATS’s operations prior to
commencing operations. An ATS is also required to notify the Commission of any
changes in its operations by filing an amendment to its initial operation report. There are
three types of amendments to an initial operation report. First, if any material change is
made to its operations, the ATS must file an amendment on Form ATS at least 20
calendar days before implementing such change. See 17 CFR 242.301(b)(2)(ii). A
“material change,” includes, but is not limited to, any change to the operating platform,
the types of securities traded, or the types of subscribers. In addition, the Commission
has stated that ATSs implicitly make materiality decisions in determining when to notify
their subscribers of changes. See Regulation ATS Adopting Release, supra note 31, at
70864. Second, if any information contained in the initial operation report becomes
inaccurate for any reason and has not been previously reported to the Commission as an
amendment on Form ATS, the ATS must file an amendment on Form ATS correcting the
information within 30 calendar days after the end of the calendar quarter in which the
system has operated. See 17 CFR 242.301(b)(2)(iii). Third, an ATS must promptly file
an amendment on Form ATS correcting information that it previously reported on Form
ATS after discovery that any information was inaccurate when filed. See 17 CFR
242.301(b)(2)(iv). An ATS is required to promptly file a cessation of operations on Form
ATS. See 17 CFR 242.301(b)(2)(v).
50
Also unlike a Form 1 application, a Form ATS is deemed confidential when filed.138 Requiring
Communication Protocol Systems to file Form ATS and amendments thereto will help the
Commission monitor and oversee such ATSs’ operations.
NMS Stock ATSs and, as proposed, Government Securities ATSs, would be subject to
enhanced filing and disclosure requirements under Rule 304 of Regulation ATS. NMS Stock
ATSs or Government Securities ATSs would, in lieu of Form ATS, be required to file public
Form ATS-N in EDGAR, in which they must disclose detailed information about the manner in
which their trading systems operate and the potential for conflicts of interest and information
leakage.139 Form ATS-N is subject to a Commission review and effectiveness process.140 An
NMS Stock ATS or Government Securities ATS would not be permitted to operate pursuant to
the Rule 3a1-1(a)(2) exemption until its Form ATS-N has become effective.141 In addition, the
ATS would be required to file amendments on Form ATS-N to provide notice of changes to its
operations and broker-dealer and affiliate relationships.142 Form ATS-N and the Commission
review and effectiveness process, which is described in detail below,
143 would provide
operational transparency and regulatory oversight of Communication Protocol Systems that are
NMS Stock ATSs or Government Securities ATSs.
In addition, all ATSs are required to periodically, by paper submission, report certain
information about transactions in the ATS and information about certain activities on Form ATSR within 30 calendar days after the end of each calendar quarter in which the market has

138 See 17 CFR 242.301(b)(2)(vii); Form ATS at 3, General Instructions A.7.
139 See proposed changes to 17 CFR 242.304.
140 See infra Section IV.A.
141 See Rule 304(a)(1)(i).
142 See infra Section IV.A.
143 See infra Section IV.
51
operated, pursuant to Rule 301(b)(9).144 Form ATS-R requires quarterly volume information for
specified categories of securities, as well as a list of all securities traded in the ATS during the
quarter and a list of all subscribers that were participants during the quarter,
145 and for ATSs
subject to the Fair Access Rule to provide certain additional information.146 Like Form ATS,
Rule 301(b)(2)(vii) and the instructions to Form ATS-R provide that Form ATS-R is deemed
confidential when filed.
147 The information reported on Form ATS-R by Communication
Protocol Systems would permit the Commission to monitor the trading on these ATSs for
compliance with the Exchange Act and applicable rules thereunder and enforce the Fair Access
Rule.148
NMS Stock ATSs must comply with certain order display and execution access
obligations149 under Rule 301(b)(3) if the ATS displays subscriber orders in an NMS stock to

144 See 17 CFR 242.301(b)(9)(i). Form ATS-R and the Form ATS-R Instructions are
available at https://www.sec.gov/about/forms/formats-r.pdf. See also Section V.B
(describing proposed changes to Form ATS-R).
145 See Form ATS-R at 4, Items 1 and 2 (describing the requirements for Exhibit A and
Exhibit B of Form ATS-R). ATSs must also complete and file Form ATS-R within 10
calendar days after ceasing to operate. See 17 CFR 242.301(b)(9)(ii); Form ATS-R at 2,
General Instructions A.2 to Form ATS-R.
146 Form ATS-R also requires an ATS that is subject to the fair access obligations under
Rule 301(b)(5) of Regulation ATS to provide a list of all persons granted, denied, or
limited access to the ATS during the period covered by the ATS-R and designate for each
person each of the following: whether the person was granted, denied, or limited access;
the date the ATS took such action; the effective date of such action; and the nature of any
denial or limitation of access. See Form ATS-R at 6, Item 7 (explaining requirements for
Exhibit C).
147 See 17 CFR 242.301(b)(2)(vii); Form ATS-R at 2, General Instruction A.7.
148 See Regulation ATS Adopting Release, supra note 31, at 70874 and 70878.
149 An ATS that displays orders and meets the volume requirements must provide to a
national securities exchange or national securities association the prices and sizes of the
orders at the highest buy price and the lowest sell price for such NMS stock, displayed to
more than one person in the ATS, for inclusion in the quotation data made available by
the national securities exchange or national securities association pursuant to 17 CFR
242.602 (Rule 602 under Regulation NMS). See 17 CFR 242.301(b)(3)(ii). With respect
to any such displayed order, the ATS must provide to any broker-dealer that has access to
52
any person (other than an employee of the ATS) and meets certain volume requirements.
150
These order display and execution access obligations were adopted by the Commission with the
expectation they would promote additional market integration and further discourage two-tier
markets when trading in an NMS stock on an ATS reaches a certain level.151 In addition, an
NMS Stock ATS must not charge any fee to broker-dealers that access the ATS through a
national securities exchange or national securities association that is inconsistent with the
equivalent access to the NMS Stock ATS that is required under Rule 301(b)(3)(iii).152 This
requirement is designed to promote equal access to ATSs.
As discussed in more detail below,153 ATSs are required to comply with the Fair Access
Rule154 under Rule 301(b)(5) if the ATS meets volume thresholds in NMS stocks, equity

the national securities exchange or national securities association to which the ATS
provides the prices and sizes of displayed orders pursuant to Rule 301(b)(3)(ii), the
ability to effect a transaction with such orders that is equivalent to the ability of such
broker-dealer to effect a transaction with other orders displayed on the exchange or by the
association; and at the price of the highest priced buy order or lowest priced sell order
displayed for the lesser of the cumulative size of such priced orders entered therein at
such price, or the size of the execution sought by such broker-dealer. See 17 CFR
242.301(b)(3)(iii).
150 An ATS that displays subscriber orders in an NMS stock must comply with Rule
301(b)(3) if, during at least four of the preceding six calendar months, it had an average
daily trading volume of 5% or more of the aggregate average daily share volume for that
NMS stock, as reported by an effective transaction reporting plan. See 17 CFR
242.301(b)(3)(i).
151 See Regulation ATS Adopting Release, supra note 31, at 70867.
152 See 17 CFR 242.301(b)(4). In addition, if the national securities exchange or national
securities association to which an ATS provides the prices and sizes of orders under
Rules 301(b)(3)(ii) and (iii) establishes rules designed to assure consistency with
standards for access to quotations displayed on such national securities exchange, or the
market operated by such national securities association, the ATS shall not charge any fee
to members that is contrary to, that is not disclosed in the manner required by, or that is
inconsistent with any standard of equivalent access established by such rules. See id.
153 See infra Section III.B.4 and Section V.A.
154 An ATS subject to the Fair Access Rule, as proposed to be revised, must: establish and
apply reasonable written standards for granting, limiting, and denying access to the
services of the ATS; make and keep records of all grants of access including, for all
53
securities that are not NMS stocks and for which transactions are reported to an SRO, municipal
securities, or corporate debt securities.155 The Commission is proposing to apply the
requirements of the Fair Access Rule to trading of U.S. Treasury Securities and Agency
Securities on ATSs.
156
Additionally, under Rule 301(b)(6) (“Capacity, Integrity, and Security Rule”), an ATS
that trades only municipal securities or corporate fixed income debt with 20% or more of the
average daily volume traded in the U.S. during at least four of the preceding six calendar months
would be required to comply with capacity, integrity, and security standards157 with respect to
those systems that support order entry, order routing, order execution, transaction reporting, and
trade comparison.
158 Information provided under the Capacity, Integrity, and Security Rule
would enable the Commission staff to better understand the operation of certain Communication
Protocol Systems and to identify potential problems and trends that may require attention.

participants, the reasons for granting such access, and all denials or limitations of access
and reasons, for each applicant and participant, for denying or limiting access; and report
on Form ATS-R a list of persons granted, denied, and limited access to the ATS. See
infra Section V.A.
155 See 17 CFR 242.301(b)(5).
156 See infra Section III.B.4.
157 An ATS that meets the volume requirements must, with respect to those systems that
support order entry, order routing, order execution, transaction reporting, and trade
comparison, establish reasonable current and future capacity estimates; conduct periodic
capacity stress tests of critical systems to determine such system’s ability to process
transactions in an accurate, timely, and efficient manner; develop and implement
reasonable procedures to review and keep current its system development and testing
methodology; review the vulnerability of its systems and data center computer operations
to internal and external threats, physical hazards, and natural disasters; establish adequate
contingency and disaster recovery plans; on an annual basis, perform an independent
review, in accordance with established audit procedures and standards, of the ATS’s
controls for ensuring that the above requirements are met, and conduct a review by senior
management of a report containing the recommendations and conclusions of the
independent review; and promptly notify the Commission and its staff of material
systems outages and significant systems changes. See 17 CFR 242.301(b)(6)(ii).
158 See 17 CFR 242.301(b)(6)(i).
54
NMS Stock ATSs, ATSs that trade non-NMS equity securities that are reported to an
SRO, and Government Securities ATSs that meet certain trading thresholds would be subject to
Regulation SCI. Regulation SCI superseded and replaced Rule 301(b)(6) requirements with
regard to ATSs that trade NMS stocks and non-NMS stocks.
159 The Commission is proposing to
apply Regulation SCI to Government Securities ATSs, as discussed below.160 Regulation SCI is
designed to help address the technological vulnerabilities, and improve the Commission’s
oversight of the core technology of key entities.
All ATSs, regardless of the volume traded on their systems, are required, pursuant to
Rule 301(b)(7),161 to permit the examination and inspection of their premises, systems, and
records, and cooperate with the examination, inspection, or investigation of subscribers, whether
such examination is being conducted by the Commission or by an SRO of which such subscriber
is a member. Because an ATS subscriber to whom the Commission’s inspection authority may
not extend could use the ATS to manipulate the market in a security, the requirement is designed
to require that ATSs cooperate in all inspections, examinations, and investigations.
ATSs are also required, pursuant to Rule 301(b)(8),162 to make and keep current the
records specified in Rule 302 of Regulation ATS163 and preserve the records specified in 17 CFR
242.303.164 The Commission is proposing to amend Rule 302 of Regulation ATS to require

159 Regulation SCI does not apply to ATSs that trade only municipal securities or corporate
debt securities. See infra notes 351-356 and accompanying text. See also Regulation
SCI Adopting Release, supra note 3, at 72262.
160 See infra Section III.C.
161 See 17 CFR 242.301(b)(7).
162 See 17 CFR 242.301(b)(8).
163 See 17 CFR 242.302. Rule 302 requires all ATSs to make and keep current certain
records, including: a record of subscribers to the ATS; daily summaries of trading in the
ATS; and time-sequenced records of order information in the ATS. See 17 CFR 242.302.
164 See Rule 303 of Regulation ATS. In the Regulation ATS Adopting Release, the
Commission stated that these requirements to make, keep, and preserve records are
55
recordkeeping related to “trading interest.” Rule 302 requires that an ATS shall make and keep
certain records, which the rule enumerates. Communication Protocol Systems that choose to
comply with Regulation ATS would be required to keep the records enumerated in Rule 302.
The Commission is proposing to revise certain of these enumerated records that relate to
“orders” to require such records related to “trading interest,” which would include both firm
orders and non-firm trading interest.165 This would include time-sequenced records of trading
interest information in the ATS.166 The recordkeeping requirements would require
Communication Protocol Systems to make and keep certain records for an audit trail of trading
activity that would allow the Commission to detect and investigate potential market
irregularities, examine whether the ATS is in compliance with Federal securities laws, and
ensure investor protections.167
In addition, ATSs are required to establish adequate written safeguards and written
procedures168 to protect confidential trading information and to separate ATS functions from

necessary to create a meaningful audit trail and to permit surveillance and examination to
help ensure fair and orderly markets. See Regulation ATS Adopting Release, supra note
31, at 70877-78.
165 See supra note 98 and accompanying text.
166 Specifically, the Commission is proposing to revise Rule 302(c)(1) (date and time
(expressed in terms of hours, minutes, and seconds) that the trading interest was
received); (c)(3) (the number of shares, or principal amount of bonds, to which the
trading interest applies); (c)(5) (the designation of the trading interest as buy or sell
trading interest); (c)(8) (any limit or stop price prescribed by the trading interest); (c)(9)
(the date on which the trading interest expires and, if the time in force is less than one
day, the time when the trading interest expires); (c)(10) (the time limit during which the
trading interest is in force); (c)(11) (any instructions to modify or cancel the trading
interest); (c)(12) (the type of account for which the trading interest is submitted); (c)(13)
(date and time that the trading interest was executed); (c)(14) (price at which the trading
interest is executed); and (c)(15) (size of the trading interest executed).
167 See Regulation ATS Adopting Release, supra note 31, at 70878.
168 These written safeguards and written procedures must include: limiting access to the
confidential trading information of subscribers to those employees of the ATS who are
operating the system or responsible for its compliance with these or any other applicable
56
other broker-dealer functions, including principal and customer trading pursuant to Rule
301(b)(10).169 Furthermore, all ATSs must adopt and implement adequate written oversight
procedures to ensure that the above written safeguards and procedures are followed.170 These
requirements are designed to help prevent the potential for abuse of subscriber confidential
trading information.171
In addition, an ATS must not use in its name the word “exchange,” or any derivation of
the word “exchange” pursuant to Rule 301(b)(11).172 The Commission believes that the use of
the word “exchange” by an ATS would be deceptive and could lead investors to believe
incorrectly that such ATS is registered as a national securities exchange.173
The Commission is proposing amendments to facilitate an orderly transition for
Communication Protocol Systems to comply with the applicable conditions of the Regulation
ATS exemption.174 The Commission understands that some Communication Protocol Systems
are not currently registered as broker-dealers.
175 To become a registered broker-dealer, these

rules; and implementing standards controlling employees of the ATS trading for their
own accounts.
169 See 17 CFR 242.301(b)(10); NMS Stock ATS Adopting Release, supra note 2, Section
VI.
170 See 17 CFR 242.301(b)(10)(ii).
171 See NMS Stock ATS Adopting Release, supra note 2, at 38864.
172 See 17 CFR 242.301(b)(11); Regulation ATS Adopting Release, supra note 31, Section
II.C.
173 See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 39884 (April 17, 1998), 63 FR 23504, 23523
(April 29, 1998) (“Regulation ATS Proposing Release”).
174 For purposes of the rule text, the Commission is proposing to apply the transitional rules
to “Newly Designated ATSs.”
175 A registered broker-dealer that operates a Communication Protocol System and is
currently a FINRA member may, under FINRA rules, be required to file a Continuing
Membership Application with FINRA noticing material changes to business operations in
connection with its operation of an ATS.
57
Communication Protocol Systems would be required to file Form BD with the Commission and
complete FINRA’s processes for new members.
176 The Commission is proposing to allow
Communication Protocol Systems that are not registered as broker-dealers at the time the
proposed rule would be effective, if adopted, to provisionally operate pursuant to the Rule 3a1-
1(a)(2) exemption while their broker-dealer registration is pending until the earlier of (1) the date
the ATS registers as a broker-dealer under Section 15 of the Exchange Act or Section
15C(a)(1)(A) of the Exchange Act and becomes a member of a national securities association or
(2) the date 210 calendar days after the effective date of any final rule.
177 The 210 calendar day
period is designed to provide time for a Communication Protocol System to submit its brokerdealer registration application, or continuing membership application, as applicable, and for
FINRA to conduct its review of new member application and continuing member application.
The proposed transition period is designed to provide a Communication Protocol System that is
not a registered broker-dealer adequate time to comply with the necessary broker-dealer
registration requirements under Regulation ATS without disrupting its market or its participants.
Proposed Rule 301(b)(2)(i) requires ATSs (other than Covered ATSs)178 to file an initial
operation report on Form ATS at least 20 days before commencing operations; however,

176 After receiving a substantially complete application package, FINRA must review and
process it within 180 calendar days. See “How to Become a Member – Member
Application Time Frames” available at https://www.finra.org/registration-examsce/broker-dealers/how-become-member-membership-application-time-frames. See also
FINRA Rule 1014.
177 See proposed revisions to Rule 301(b)(1). This transition period for the proposed rule, if
adopted, would also apply to Currently Exempted Government Securities ATSs (i.e.,
Legacy Government Securities ATSs formerly not required to comply with Regulation
ATS pursuant to the exemption under § 240.3a1-1(a)(3) prior to effective date of any
final rule) not registered as a broker-dealer. See infra note 283.
178 “Covered ATS” is defined infra note 257. The Commission is proposing changes to Rule
301(b)(2)(i) to clarify that the requirement to file Form ATS does not apply to ATSs
other than Covered ATSs. See proposed Rule 301(b)(2)(i).
58
Communication Protocol Systems that seek to operate as ATSs already will be operating when
the proposed rule, if adopted, becomes effective. To avoid disruption of the services of the ATS,
the Commission is proposing to amend Rule 301(b)(2)(i) to require Communication Protocol
Systems (other than those that are Covered ATSs)179 to file an initial operation report on Form
ATS no later than 30 calendar days after the effective date of any final rule.
180 The Commission
is also proposing changes, as discussed below, to Rule 301(b)(2)(viii) and Rule 304 to facilitate
the transition for Communication Protocol Systems that are Covered ATSs to file Form ATSN.181 Requiring Communication Protocol Systems to file a Form ATS with the Commission at
the proposed time would provide the Commission with information about its operations and
facilitate oversight of the systems.
Request for Comment
1. Should the Commission amend Exchange Act Rule 3b-16 as proposed? Should the
Commission adopt a more expansive or limited interpretation of the definition of
“exchange”? Do commenters agree that, in the current market, Communication Protocol
Systems function as market places that conduct similar activities as exchanges do?
Would any systems that conduct similar activities as exchanges that should be included in
proposed Rule 3b-16 be excluded? Are there any asset classes or types of securities that
should be excluded from the definition of exchange? If so, why?
2. What are commenters’ views on the potential consequences of expanding or limiting the
definition of “exchange” under Exchange Act Rule 3b-16? What are commenters’ views
on how changing Rule 3b-16 could benefit or harm investors and market participants?

179 The rule text uses the term “Covered Newly Designated ATS.”
180 See proposed changes to Rule 301(b)(2)(i).
181 See infra note 300 and Section IV.A.
59
Are new systems that meet the definition of exchange likely to choose to operate as ATSs
instead of national securities exchanges?
3. Should the Commission adopt the proposed definition of “trading interest” under
Exchange Act Rule 3b-16? Should the definition of “trading interest” require attributes
to be identified in addition to at least the security and either quantity, direction (buy or
sell), or price? Alternatively, would only one of the security, quantity, direction (buy or
sell), or price be adequate to indicate trading interest? Should the definition of
“exchange” continue to be limited to systems that use orders? If so, why?
4. Should the Commission revise Exchange Act Rule 3b-16 to focus on bringing together
buyers and sellers, rather than bringing together orders (or trading interest)? Would the
proposed revisions to the rule appropriately describe systems that use non-firm trading
interest to allow participants to communicate their trading interest?
5. Should the Commission revise Exchange Act Rule 3b-16(a)(2) to describe a system that
“makes available established, non-discretionary methods” under which buyers and sellers
interact? Should the Commission revise the language further to clarify that a system
provider that makes available a trading facility or communication protocol by way of a
third party or affiliate would fall within the criteria of Rule 3b-16(a)(2)? Should there be
any minimum or baseline to the established methods a system must have to qualify as an
exchange? If so, what are they? Do commenters agree that making available
communication protocols, as discussed herein, is sufficient to be an established, nondiscretionary method under which buyers and sellers can interact?
6. Should the Commission remove the reference to “multiple” in Rule 3b-16(a)(1))? If so,
why? If not, why not?
7. Should Communication Protocol Systems that choose to comply with Regulation ATS be
subject to all of the requirements of Regulation ATS? Are there certain requirements of
60
Regulation ATS that should or should not be applicable to Communication Protocol
Systems, or certain Communication Protocol Systems? For example, are the current
Regulation ATS recordkeeping requirements appropriate for Communication Protocol
Systems? Should the Commission require a Communication Protocol System that
chooses to operate as an ATS to create and maintain records that are not otherwise
required by Rule 301(b)(8) of Regulation ATS? Is there anything that is not currently
among the conditions to the Regulation ATS exemption that a Communication Protocol
System and/or an existing ATS should comply with as part of Regulation ATS? And if
so, why?
8. Should the Commission amend Regulation ATS, Form ATS, Form ATS-R, or Form
ATS-N in any way to be more tailored to Communication Protocol Systems? If so, how?
9. Are the proposed transition periods for Communication Protocol Systems appropriate?
Should the Commission provide Communication Protocol Systems more or less time to
comply with any of the requirements of Regulation ATS? Please explain.
10. Is the Commission’s proposal that a Newly Designated ATS must file an initial operation
report on Form ATS no later than 30 calendar days after the effective date of any final
rule, if adopted, appropriate? If not, should the Commission provide more time or less
time for a Newly Designated ATS to file an initial Form ATS?
11. Should the Commission allow a Newly Designated ATS that is not registered as a brokerdealer to operate pursuant to the Rule 3a1-1(a)(2) exemption on a provisional basis?
Does the proposal to allow such ATSs a maximum 210 calendar days to comply with the
broker-dealer registration requirement provide an appropriate amount of time to register
as a broker-dealer? If not, what, if any, transition period would be appropriate and why?
III. Proposed Changes Applicable to Government Securities ATSs
61
A. ATS Markets for Government Securities
Government securities182 play a critical role in the U.S. and global economies. Among
other things, for example, Treasury rates are a fundamental benchmark for pricing virtually all
other financial assets.183 Systems currently operating as ATSs, particularly those that operate in
the secondary interdealer markets for the most-recently issued (“on-the-run”) U.S. Treasury
Securities, have become a significant location of trading interest for government securities.184

182 Under the Exchange Act, government securities are defined as, among other things,
securities which are direct obligations of, or obligations guaranteed as to principal or
interest by, the United States. See 15 U.S.C. 78c(42)(A). Government securities include
U.S. Treasury securities, debt securities issued or guaranteed by a U.S. executive agency,
as defined in 5 U.S.C. 105, or government-sponsored enterprise, as defined in
2 U.S.C. 622(8), and Agency Mortgage-Backed Securities (“MBSs”). Government
securities also include securities which are issued or guaranteed by the Tennessee Valley
Authority or by corporations in which the United States has a direct or indirect interest
and which are designated by the Secretary of the Treasury for exemption as necessary or
appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors; securities issued or
guaranteed as to principal or interest by any corporation the securities of which are
designated, by statute specifically naming such corporation, to constitute
exempt securities within the meaning of the laws administered by the Commission; and
any put, call, straddle, option, or privilege on one of the aforementioned (subject to
limited exceptions). 15 U.S.C. 78c(42)(B)-(C).
183 See Group of Thirty Working Group on Treasury Market Liquidity, U.S. Treasury
Markets: Steps Toward Increased Resilience. Group of Thirty at 1 (2021) (“G30
Report”), available at https://group30.org/publications/detail/4950.
184 See Recent Disruptions and Potential Reforms in the U.S. Treasury Market: A Staff
Progress Report, at 32, available at https://home.treasury.gov/system/files/136/IAWGTreasury-Report.pdf (“November 2021 IAWG Report”). The November 2021 IAWG
Report is a joint report issued by the Inter-Agency Working Group for Treasury Market
Surveillance (“IAWG”), which consists of staff from the U.S. Department of the
Treasury, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the Federal Reserve
Bank of New York, the Commission, and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission.
Among other things, the November 2021 IAWG report provides an overview of the
current structure of the Treasury market and a detailed analysis of the recent disruptions
to the Treasury market at the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic in March 2020 as well as
other recent disruptions to the Treasury market. The report also sets forth what the
IAWG believes are the six guiding principles for the Treasury market and provides an
update about the work streams for specific policy analysis being undertaken by the
members of the IAWG.
62
Specifically, most interdealer trading takes place on electronic platforms provided by interdealer
brokers that operate limit order books, with electronic interdealer trading being concentrated in
on-the-run Treasury securities.185 In July 2021, average daily trading in government securities
totaled $978 billion, or roughly 95 percent of all fixed income trading volume in the U.S.186
Legacy Government Securities ATSs now operate with complexity similar to that of
markets that trade NMS stocks in terms of use of technology and speed of trading, the use of
limit order books, order types, algorithms, connectivity, data feeds, and the active participation
of principal trading firms (“PTFs”).187 For example, based on the Commission’s review of Form
ATS filings by ATSs that trade government securities and discussions with market participants,
the Commission believes that Legacy Government Securities ATSs often offer subscribers a
variety of order types to pursue both aggressive and passive trading strategies and low latency,
high-speed connectivity to the ATS. These ATSs frequently use automated systems to match
orders anonymously on a price/time priority basis. Some Legacy Government Securities ATSs
also segment orders into categories by participants or allow participants the ability to interact
with specific counterparty groups in the ATS and facilitate order interaction and execution.188

185 See id. at 3.
186 See SIFMA Fixed Income Trading Volume, available at
https://www.sifma.org/resources/research/us-fixed-income-trading-volume/. This
includes U.S. Treasury Securities, Agency Mortgage-Backed Securities, and Federal
Agency Securities.
187 See November 2021 IAWG Report, supra note 184, at 31. See also NMS Stock ATS
Adopting Release, supra note 2, at 38771 for a discussion about the current operational
complexities of NMS Stock ATSs.
188 See also November 2021 IAWG Report, supra note 184, at 31; Joint Staff Report: The
U.S. Treasury Market on October 15, 2014, at 11, 35-36, available at
https://www.sec.gov/files/treasury-market-volatility-10-14-2014-joint-report.pdf
(“October 15 Staff Report”); Department of the Treasury Release No. 2015-0013
(January 22, 2016), Notice Seeking Public Comment on the Evolution of the Treasury
Market Structure, 81 FR 3928 (January 22, 2016) (“Treasury Request for Information”).
This evolution in the interdealer secondary cash markets for U.S. Treasury Securities was
63
Likewise, Communication Protocol Systems are increasingly used as electronic means to bring
together buyers and sellers for government securities and are particularly prevalent in the dealerto-customer market for U.S. Treasury and markets for off-the-run189 U.S. Treasury Securities,
Agency Securities,
190 and repos.
The most liquid and commonly traded government securities are U.S. Treasury
Securities, which are direct obligations of the U.S. Government issued by the U.S. Department of
the Treasury (“Treasury Department”). The Treasury Department issues several different types
of securities, including Treasury bills, nominal coupons notes and bonds, Floating Rate Notes,
and Treasury Inflation Protected Securities. Treasury nominal coupon notes and bonds, as well
as Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, may also be separated into principal and interest
payments and traded as STRIPS.191 For each security type, the on-the-run securities are

also highlighted in the October 15 Staff Report, the Treasury Request for Information,
and public comment received by the Commission. The October 15 Staff Report is a joint
report about the unusually high level of volatility and rapid round-trip in prices that
occurred in the U.S. Treasuries market on October 15, 2014. Among other things, the
October 15 Staff Report provides an overview of the market structure, liquidity, and
applicable regulations of the U.S. Treasury market, as well as the broad changes to the
structure of the U.S. Treasury market that have occurred over the past two decades.
189 See infra note 193 for a description of “off-the-run” securities.
190 See James Collin Harkrader and Michael Puglia, Fixed Income Market Structure:
Treasuries vs. Agency MBS, Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System: FEDS
NOTES (August 25, 2020), available at
https://www.federalreserve.gov/econres/notes/feds-notes/fixed-income-market-structuretreasuries-vs-agency-mbs-20200825.htm (“August 25th FEDS Notes”) (explaining the
recent evolution of the government securities market structure).
191 STRIPS is the acronym for Separate Trading of Registered Interest and Principal of
Securities. STRIPS let investors hold and trade the individual interest and principal
components of eligible Treasury notes and bonds as separate securities. STRIPS are
Treasury securities that don’t make periodic interest payments. Market participants
create STRIPS by separating the interest and principal parts of a Treasury note or bond.
STRIPS can only be bought and sold through a financial institution, broker, or dealer and
held in the commercial book-entry system. See TreasuryDirect, STRIPS, available at
https://www.treasurydirect.gov/instit/marketables/strips/strips.htm.
64
generally considered the most liquid in the secondary market.192 Market participants commonly
refer to securities issued prior to “on-the-run” securities as “off-the-run” securities.193 Market
participants use U.S. Treasury Securities as an investment instrument, hedging vehicle, and to
source orders and trading interest, among other things. U.S. banks commonly own U.S. Treasury
Securities due to their low risk and strong liquidity characteristics. Additionally, U.S. Treasury
Securities are often used as collateral in lending arrangements or as margin on other financial
transactions.
For U.S. Treasury Securities, the secondary market is bifurcated between the dealer-tocustomer market, in which dealers trade with their customers (e.g., investment companies,
pension funds, insurance companies, corporations, or retail), and the interdealer market, in which
dealers and specialty firms trade with one another.194 Customers, also referred to as “end users,”
have not traditionally traded directly with other end users.195 Rather, end users primarily trade
with dealers, and dealers use the interdealer market as a source of liquidity to help facilitate their
trading with clients in the dealer-to-customer market. Trading in the U.S. Treasury Securities
dealer-to-customer market is generally – and has historically been – conducted bilaterally using
voice, and more recently, electronically through the use of Communication Protocol Systems,

192 On-the-run U.S. Treasury Securities are the most recently issued nominal coupon
securities. Nominal coupon securities pay a fixed semi-annual coupon and are currently
issued at original maturities of 2, 3, 5, 7, 10, 20, and 30 years. These standard maturities
are commonly referred to as “benchmark” securities because the yields for these
securities are used as references to price a number of private market transactions.
193 Off-the-run or “seasoned” U.S. Treasury Securities are the issues that preceded the
current on-the-run securities. The U.S. Treasury Securities market also comprises futures
and options on U.S. Treasury Securities, and securities financing transactions in which
U.S. Treasury Securities are used as collateral. See Treasury Request for Information,
supra note 188, at 3928. For the purpose of this proposal, the Commission focuses on the
secondary cash market.
194 See id.
195 See id.
65
most commonly using an RFQ protocol. Broker-dealers also internalize a portion of their
customer flow, although the extent to which broker-dealers internalize is unclear.196
In the interdealer market, the majority of trading in on-the-run U.S. Treasury Securities
currently occurs on ATSs using limit order books supported by advanced electronic trading
technology.197 Furthermore, interdealer trading for on-the-run U.S. Treasury Securities is
generally concentrated within a very small number of ATSs, especially when compared to the
market for NMS stocks, which is dispersed among many trading venues.198 While trading in the
most liquid NMS stocks occur on a variety of trading venues (e.g., exchanges, ATSs, singledealer broker platforms), the majority of overall trading in the interdealer secondary market for
on-the-run U.S. Treasury Securities occurs on ATSs.199 For example, during the first nine
months of 2021, one ATS accounted for $14.9 trillion in total dollar volume in all government

196 See id. For the purposes of this proposal, internalization refers to a broker filling a
customer order either from the firm’s own inventory or by matching the order with other
customer order flow, instead of sending the order to an interdealer market for execution.
See id. at 3928 n.5.
197 See October 15 Staff Report, supra note 188, at 11, 35-36. See also Bloomberg Letter at
5, stating that liquid on-the-run government securities are mostly traded on limit order
books.
198 The growth of electronic trading has contributed to a marked shift in the composition of
the interdealer cash market for U.S. Treasury Securities over time. Traditionally,
interdealer brokers only allowed primary dealers to access their trading venues. After
1992, however, interdealer brokers expanded access to all entities that were netting
members of the Government Securities Clearing Corporation (which is now the Fixed
Income Clearing Corporation’s Government Securities Division). Thereafter, other
entities gained access to these trading venues through their prime brokers, who
themselves had access, and in recent years the trading venues granted direct access to an
even wider range of participants, including non-dealers, which account for more than half
of the trading activity in the futures and electronically brokered interdealer cash markets.
See October 15 Staff Report, supra note 188, at 36. See also Treasury Request for
Information, supra note 188, at 3928.
199 See infra Table VIII.2 and accompanying text.
66
securities, the majority of which were on-the-run U.S. Treasury Securities.200 For off-the-run
U.S. Treasury Securities,201 the majority of interdealer trading occurs via transactions through
traditional voice-assisted interdealer broker platforms and Communication Protocol Systems that
offer various trading protocols to bring together buyers and sellers,202 though some interdealer
trading of off-the-run U.S. Treasury Securities does occur on ATSs.203
Another type of government securities is Agency Securities. Agency Securities include
securities issued by or guaranteed by U.S. Government corporations or U.S. Government
sponsored enterprises (“GSEs”).204 Agency Securities, which may not be backed by the full faith
and credit of the U.S. Government, are generally considered to be very liquid and offer state and

200 For an additional discussion of trading volume in the U.S. bond market as a whole and
U.S. Treasury Securities, see infra Section VIII.B.2.
201 Also, as noted in the October 15 Staff Report issued by the Treasury Department, Board
of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, Federal Reserve Bank of New York, the
Commission, and U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission, trading in off-the-run
U.S. Treasury Securities has always been less active than trading in on-the-run U.S.
Treasury Securities, and price discovery in the cash markets primarily occurs in on-therun securities. See October 15 Staff Report, supra note 188 at n. 7.
202 See November 2021 IAWG Report, supra note 184, at 3. See also Bloomberg Letter at 5,
stating that less liquid off-the-run government securities are mostly traded using methods
other than limit order books.
203 While trading in on-the-run securities likely accounts for more than half of total daily
trading volumes, off-the-run U.S. Treasury Securities make up over 95 percent of the
outstanding marketable U.S. Treasury Securities. See G30 Report, supra note 183, at 1,
n.2.
204 See U.S. Department of the Treasury Resource Center, “Fixed Income: Agency
Securities,” available at https://www.treasury.gov/resourcecenter/faqs/Markets/Pages/fixedfederal.aspx. For example, the Government National
Mortgage Association (“Ginnie Mae”) is a U.S. Government corporation that issues
mortgage-backed securities guaranteed by the full faith and credit of the U.S.
Government. The assets collateralized into the securities issued by Ginnie Mae are
federally insured and guaranteed mortgage loans. Agency Securities issued by GSEs
include those issued by the Federal Home Loan Banks (“FHLBs”), the Federal National
Mortgage Association (“Fannie Mae”), the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation
(“Freddie Mac”), and the Student Loan Marketing Association (“Sallie Mae”). Agency
Securities issued by GSEs are not normally backed by the full faith and credit of the U.S.
Government and therefore, may present some default and credit risk.
67
local tax advantages to the holder. Market participants can use ATSs to buy and sell Agency
Securities, although, based on the Commission’s review of Form ATS-R filings, transaction
volume of Agency Securities is not as large as that of U.S. Treasury Securities on ATSs.205
Investors, banks, and other market participants often acquire Agency Securities in the secondary
market to support various investing strategies, such as hedging against other more risky
investments in a given portfolio. Agency Securities also trade on Communication Protocol
Systems where buyers and sellers can use RFQ protocols, for example, to engage in price
discovery, find a counterparty, and negotiate and execute a transaction.
Repos provide short-term financing (often overnight) to help fund the borrower’s (usually
a broker-dealer) trading or lending activities. However, the collateral is sold to the lender, and
the repo obligates the borrower to repurchase the collateral. U.S. Treasury Securities are
frequently used as the underlying collateral of a repo. Several ATSs have provided notice on
their Form ATS disclosures that they facilitate the trading of repos. Much like the markets for
U.S. Treasury Securities and Agency Securities, repo trading has historically been conducted bilaterally by voice; however, over the past decade, electronic trading of repos on Communication
Protocol Systems has increased significantly. Electronic trading of repos is primarily conducted
via RFQ protocols, and many systems for trading in repos now offer electronic trading options.
With regard to the interdealer secondary markets for on-the-run U.S. Treasury Securities,
the continued growth of electronic trading has contributed to an increased presence of PTFs in
the market place.206 Currently, PTFs account for the majority of trading and provide top-of-the-

205 Additionally, repos on government securities are also traded on some ATSs.
206 PTFs are not, however, very active in the electronic markets for Agency Securities. See
August 25th FEDS Notes, supra note 190 (“Though parts of the agency MBS market
have moved from voice-based to screen-based trading since the early 2000s, algorithmic
high-frequency electronic trading still does not comprise a meaningful share of average
daily volume and the market remains devoid of PTF participation.”).
68
book liquidity for on-the-run U.S. Treasury Securities on electronic interdealer trading venues.207
From January 1, 2021 to June 30, 2021, PTFs traded on 13 Government Securities ATSs
accounting for approximately 48.6 percent of total on-the-run Government Securities ATS
trading volume.208 PTFs usually have direct access to electronic interdealer trading venues for
U.S. Treasury Securities, and as is the case with the equity markets, PTFs trading on the
electronic interdealer trading venues for on-the-run U.S. Treasury Securities often employ
automated algorithmic trading strategies that rely on speed and allow the PTFs to cancel or
modify quotes in response to perceived market events.209 Furthermore, most PTFs trading U.S.
Treasury Securities on these trading venues for on-the-run U.S. Treasury Securities also restrict
their activities to principal trading and do not hold positions long term, while dealers use the
interdealer market as a source of orders and trading interest to help facilitate their trading with
clients in the dealer-to-customer market.210 As explained in the October 15 Staff Report, the
increase in trading by PTFs in the interdealer market may affect the amount of liquidity available
to end users in the dealer-to-customer market.211
In response to the 2020 Proposal, the Commission received several comments that
broadly supported expanding the regulatory framework under Regulation ATS with respect to

207 See November 2021 IAWG Report, supra note 184, at 5. See also October 15 Staff
Report, supra note 188, at 36; Remarks of Deputy Secretary Justin Muzinich at the 2019
US Treasury Market Structure Conference (September 23, 2019), available at
https://home.treasury.gov/news/press-releases/sm782.
208 See infra Table VIII.2. (ATS PTF volume / ATS volume) x 100 = PTF share of ATS
volume (%).
209 See October 15 Staff Report, supra note 188, at 32, 35-36, 39.
210 See November 2021 IAWG Report, supra note 184, at 5; October 15 Staff Report, supra
note 188, at 38.
211 See October 15 Staff Report, supra note 188, at 37.
69
Government Securities ATSs.212 Commenters stated that ATSs have become increasingly
important in the government securities market.213 One commenter stated that, given that
Government Securities ATSs closely resemble NMS Stock ATSs, it would be appropriate to
impose similar regulatory oversight, including regulatory oversight by the Commission and
FINRA.214 Likewise, another commenter stated that many of the concerns surrounding potential
conflicts of interest that arise between an ATS and the activities of its bank/broker-dealer
operator and affiliates – and the transparency of an ATS’s operations – are equally relevant with
respect to ATSs that transact in government securities as to NMS Stock ATSs.215 In addition,
one commenter stated that critical intermediaries in the U.S. Treasury market are “effectively
unregulated” as trading venues or dealers, and this hampers availability of information
concerning trading in these critical markets, and that oversight of the core “plumbing” of these
critical markets, which determines their resiliency, is lacking.216 This commenter stated that
several ATSs now dominate the trading of U.S. Treasury Securities and agency mortgage backed
securities, and that ensuring that Regulation ATS and Regulation SCI apply to these entities will
provide for additional data and create more transparency into the trading around those critical
markets.217 This commenter also stated that expanding Regulation ATS with respect to ATSs
that trade U.S. Treasuries has also become important as the role of PTFs has become more
significant in the U.S. Treasury markets and related repo markets.218

212 See, e.g., BrokerTec Letter, SIFMA Letter, AFREF Letter.
213 See FINRA Letter.
214 See SIFMA Letter at 2.
215 See also MFA Letter at 4.
216 See AFREF Letter at 1.
217 See id.
218 See id. at 2 (stating that the growing role of PTFs means that much trading activity is not
coming from long-term investors but rather proprietary trading firms who may trade in-
70
B. Heightened Regulatory Requirements under Regulation ATS for
Government Securities ATSs
The vast majority of ATSs that operate today do so pursuant to the exemption provided
by Exchange Act Rule 3a1-1(a)(2), which requires the ATSs to be in compliance with
Regulation ATS, which includes, among other things, registering as broker-dealers. Currently
Exempted Government Securities ATSs, however, operate pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 3a1-
1(a)(3)219 and Rule 301(a)(4)(ii)(A).220 These provisions currently exempt an ATS from
compliance with the requirements in Rule 301(b) of Regulation ATS221 if, in relevant part, the
ATS (1) is registered as a broker-dealer under Sections 15(b)222 or 15C223 of the Exchange Act,
or is a bank, and (2) limits its securities activities to government securities (as defined in Section
3(a)(42) of the Exchange Act), repos, any puts, calls, straddles, options, or privileges on
government securities, other than puts, calls, straddles, options, or privileges that: (i) are traded
on one or more national securities exchanges; or (ii) for which quotations are disseminated
through an automated quotation system operated by a registered securities association, and
commercial paper.224 Accordingly, such Currently Exempted Government Securities ATSs are

and-out of their positions several times in a day and are likely to react sharply to market
volatility).
219 17 CFR 240.3a1-1(a)(3).
220 17 CFR 242.301(a)(4)(ii)(A).
221 17 CFR 242.301(b).
222 See 15 U.S.C. 78o(b) (pertaining to the registration and regulation of brokers and
dealers).
223 See 15 U.S.C. 78o-5 (pertaining to the registration and regulation of government
securities brokers and dealers).
224 See 15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(42). The definition of “government securities” in Section 3(a)(42)
of the Exchange Act (and, therefore, references to “government securities” throughout
this proposal) includes certain puts, calls, straddles, options, or privileges on government
securities, other than puts, straddles, options, or privileges that: are traded on one or
more national securities exchanges; or for which quotations are disseminated through an
71
not required to register as a national securities exchange or comply with Regulation ATS.225 To
the Commission’s knowledge, most Currently Exempted Government Securities ATSs operating
pursuant to this exemption register as broker-dealers with the Commission.226
ATSs that do not limit their securities activities solely to government securities or repos,
trading for example corporate bonds or municipal securities, cannot use this exemption. Such
ATSs must either register as an exchange or comply with Regulation ATS pursuant to Exchange
Act Rule 3a1-1(a)(2), which includes, among other things, registering as a broker-dealer under
Section 15 of the Exchange Act.227 Government Securities ATSs that are currently subject to
Regulation ATS must report transactions in U.S. Treasury Securities and Agency Securities to
the Trade Reporting and Compliance Engine (“TRACE”),228 and FINRA publicly disseminates

automated quotation system operated by a registered securities association. See supra
note 182.
225 See 17 CFR 242.301(a)(4)(i) and (a)(4)(ii)(A). Although not required to register as a
national securities exchange or comply with Regulation ATS, a Currently Exempted
Government Securities ATS may need to register as a broker-dealer under Section 15(b)
or as a government securities broker or government securities dealer pursuant to
Exchange Act Section 15C, and comply with the associated regulatory requirements.
See, e.g., 17 CFR chapter IV, subchapter A – Regulations under Section 15C of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
226 Some ATSs that are eligible for the exemption voluntarily comply with Regulation ATS,
even though ATSs that trade only government securities are not required to comply with
Regulation ATS at all.
227 See supra notes 130-131 and accompanying text.
228 See FINRA Rule 6730(a)(1) requires FINRA members to report transactions in TRACEEligible Securities, which FINRA Rule 6710 defines to include U.S. Treasury Securities
and Agency Securities. For each transaction in U.S. Treasury Securities and Agency
Securities, a FINRA member would be required to report the CUSIP number or similar
numeric identifier or FINRA symbol; size (volume) of the transaction; price of the
transaction (or elements necessary to calculate price); symbol indicating whether
transaction is a buy or sell; date of trade execution (“as/of” trades only); contra-party’s
identifier; capacity (principal or agent); time of execution; reporting side executing
broker as “give-up” (if any); contra side introducing broker (in case of “give-up” trade);
the commission (total dollar amount), if applicable; date of settlement; if the member is
reporting a transaction that occurred on an ATS pursuant to FINRA Rule 6732, the
ATS’s separate Market Participant Identifier (“MPID”); and trade modifiers as required.
72
data about these transactions. Currently, FINRA publishes weekly aggregated transaction
information on U.S. Treasury Securities and disseminates certain transaction information on
Agency Securities immediately upon receipt of a transaction report.229 Today, Legacy
Government Securities ATSs are subject only to certain provisions of Regulation ATS because
not all the provisions are applicable to trading in government securities.230 In particular,
government securities are not included in any category of securities under the Fair Access
Rule.231 Today, the categories of securities under the Fair Access Rule only include NMS
stocks, equity securities that are not NMS stocks and for which transactions are reported to an
SRO, municipal securities, and corporate debt securities.232 In addition, Regulation SCI does not
apply to ATSs with respect to their trading in government securities.233 The Capacity, Integrity,

For when-issued transactions in U.S. Treasury Securities, a FINRA member would be
required to report the yield in lieu of price. See FINRA Rule 6730(c).
229 FINRA Rule 6750(a) requires FINRA to disseminate information on all transactions on
certain securities, including Agency Securities (but excluding U.S. Treasury Securities),
immediately upon receipt of the transaction report. FINRA is permitted to publish or
distribute weekly aggregated transaction information and statistics on U.S. Treasury
Securities, and has stated that it intends to publish weekly volume information aggregated
by U.S. Treasury subtype (e.g., Bills, Floating Rate Notes, Treasury Inflation-Protected
Securities, and Nominal Coupons). See Securities Exchange Release No. 87837
(December 20, 2019), 84 FR 71986 (December 30, 2019) (approving a proposed rule
change to allow FINRA to publish or distribute aggregated transaction information and
statistics on U.S. Treasury Securities).
230 See 17 CFR 242.301(b)(1), (2), and (7) through (11). The order display and execution
access provisions under Rule 301(b)(3) and the related fee restrictions of Rule 301(b)(4)
of Regulation ATS only apply to an ATS’s NMS stock activities. See 17 CFR
242.301(b)(3) and (4). See also supra Section II.D.2 (discussing the requirements for
compliance with the Regulation ATS exemption).
231 17 CFR 242.301(b)(5). See also supra notes 153-157 and accompanying text.
232 See 17 CFR 242.301(b)(5).
233 See infra Section III.C (describing the types of entities that are currently subject to the
requirements of Regulation SCI).
73
and Security Rule under Rule 301(b)(6)234 also does not apply to the government securities
activities of an ATS.235
Finally, Government Securities ATSs are not required to comply with rules applicable to
ATSs that trade NMS stocks, including the obligation to file a public Form ATS-N pursuant to
Rule 304 of Regulation ATS.236 ATSs that transact in government securities or repos are also
not required to comply with the order display and execution access provisions under Rule
301(b)(3)237 and the related fee restrictions of Rule 301(b)(4),
238 both of which only apply to an
ATS’s NMS stock activities.
Despite the critical role of government securities in the U.S. and global economy, the
significant volume in government securities transacted on ATSs, and these ATSs’ growing
importance to investors and overall securities market structure, Currently Exempted Government
Securities ATSs are exempt from exchange registration and are not required to comply with
Regulation ATS. In addition, Communication Protocol Systems that transact in government
securities and/or repos, but do not currently meet the definition of “exchange,” are not subject to
exchange registration requirements and are likewise not required to comply with Regulation
ATS.239 Furthermore, ATSs that trade both government securities and non-government debt
securities (e.g., corporate bonds) are not subject to all the provisions of Regulation ATS. Market
participants today have limited access to information that permits them to adequately compare
and contrast how they can use a Government Securities ATS or how their trading interest would

234 17 CFR 242.301(b)(6).
235 See supra notes 157-158 and accompanying text.
236 17 CFR 242.304. See also supra notes 139-143 and accompanying text.
237 See supra notes 149-151 and accompanying text.
238 See supra note 152 and accompanying text.
239 See supra Section II.A.
74
be handled by Government Securities ATSs.240 In addition, Government Securities ATSs are not
currently subject to the Fair Access Rule and Regulation SCI, which would help ensure the fair
treatment of subscribers and address technological vulnerabilities, and improve the
Commission’s oversight, of the core technology of key entities in the markets for government
securities.241 Given these concerns, and comments received on the 2020 Proposal, the
Commission is re-proposing and revising the amendments described below.
1. Proposed Definition of Government Securities ATS
The Commission is re-proposing to amend Rule 300 of Regulation ATS to define
“Government Securities ATS” to mean an alternative trading system, as defined in Rule 300(a),
that trades government securities, as defined in section 3(a)(42) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C.
78c(a)(42)), or repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements on government securities.242 To
meet the definition of a Government Securities ATS, the organization, association, person, group
of persons, or system must meet the definition of an alternative trading system under Rule 300(a)
of Regulation ATS.243 The Commission is also re-proposing that a Government Securities ATS
shall not trade securities other than government securities or repos244 and that trading of
securities other than government securities or repos would require the separate filing of a Form
ATS or a Form ATS-N, depending on the types of securities traded.245 Other than complying

240 See, e.g., 2020 Proposal, supra note 4, at 87125.
241 See id. at Section III.B.4 (discussing the Fair Access Rule) and III.C (discussing
Regulation SCI).
242 See proposed Rule 300(l).
243 17 CFR 242.300(a). See Regulation ATS Adopting Release, supra note 31, at 70851-52.
244 See proposed Rule 300(l).
245 An ATS that does not trade NMS stocks or government securities, as proposed, must file
Form ATS. If the broker-dealer operates an ATS that trades NMS stocks and an ATS
that trades government securities, it would be required to file a separate Form ATS-N for
each of the NMS Stock ATS and Government Securities ATS.
75
with Rule 304 and filing Form ATS-N, this amendment would not, however, impose new
compliance requirements on ATSs that currently trade government securities in addition to nongovernment securities.
246 Under the proposal, if a broker-dealer operator currently operates an
ATS for government securities and non-government securities (for example, corporate bonds),
the broker-dealer operator would separately be required to comply with Regulation ATS for: (1)
a Government Securities ATS that would trade government securities, which would be subject to
Rule 304, and file disclosures on Form ATS-N, as proposed to be revised and (2) a nonGovernment Securities ATS (that, for example, would trade corporate bonds), which would not
be subject to Rule 304, and file disclosures on its existing Form ATS, as amended to remove
references to government securities.
In response to the 2020 Proposal, the Commission received one comment letter opposing
the proposed definition of Government Securities ATS.
247 This commenter stated that separating
trading activity in government securities and repos from non-NMS stock trading activity could
impose administrative and operational burdens on both Government Securities ATSs and
subscribers.248 The commenter stated that the Commission did not explain why requiring a

246 Broker-dealers that operate Government Securities ATSs that are currently subject to
Regulation ATS already must have established written safeguards and written procedures
to protect subscribers’ confidential trading information, pursuant to Rule 301(b)(10), and
already must make and keep records pursuant to Rule 301(b)(8) that are tailored to the
types of securities the ATS trades and the subscribers that trade those securities on the
ATS. The Commission believes the proposal is broadly consistent with the manner in
which broker-dealers that operate NMS Stock ATSs and non-NMS Stock ATSs currently
comply with Regulation ATS. For further discussion, see infra Section III.B.3.
247 See ICE Bonds Letter I at 5.
248 See id. The commenter stated that the initial set-up of a new Government Securities ATS
would require, among other things, the development of a matching engine, separate
connectivity for subscribers, new clearing connectivity, additional personnel to support
trading operations of the Government Securities ATS, and regulatory controls (e.g., 17
CFR 240.15c3-5). The commenter further stated that these requirements would
ultimately lead to fewer venues for subscribers to trade and hedge and concentrate trading
among a few large Government Securities ATSs, as smaller Legacy Government
76
Government Securities ATS to separate its operations from other non-NMS Stock ATS trading
activity would improve Commission oversight or other regulatory goals.249
The proposed definition of Government Securities ATS, however, would not require
operational separation by a Government Securities ATS, and the operational costs that the
commenter described would therefore not apply.
250 The proposed definition would not, for
example, require the Government Securities ATS to develop a new matching engine nor require
changes with regard to how subscribers enter trading interest into the ATS. Other than requiring
the Government Securities ATS to separately comply with the requirements of Regulation ATS
(and, as applicable, Regulation SCI), the proposed definition does not create new compliance
requirements on Government Securities ATSs.251 Under the proposed rule, a broker-dealer
operator for an ATS that currently trades both government securities and corporate debt
securities, for example, would be required to file a Form ATS-N for the trading of government
securities on a Government Securities ATS and a separate Form ATS for trading of corporate
debt securities on an ATS. In this example, the broker-dealer operator for a Government
Securities ATS and non-Government Securities ATS may be required to disclose certain
information on Form ATS-N about the non-Government Securities ATS. For example, to the
extent that any persons support both the operation of the Government Securities ATS and the
ATS that trades corporate debt securities and have access to subscriber confidential trading

Securities ATSs may determine that this separation requirement is cost prohibitive. In
addition, the commenter stated that if a subscriber has to execute a corporate bond on one
ATS and sell the treasury on a different ATS, there is an administrative and operational
burden placed on the subscriber, as well as additional economic and market risk to the
subscriber as the price on the other venue may move by the time the hedge trade is
initiated.
249 See id.
250 See id.
251 See supra note 246.
77
information for the Government Securities ATS, the Government Securities ATS would need to
disclose that on Part II, Item 7 of Form ATS-N.252 In addition, the Government Securities ATS
would be required to provide under Part III, Item 11 information about interaction with nongovernment securities markets (e.g., futures, currencies, swaps, corporate bonds).
253
Further, the Commission believes that by stating that a Government Securities ATS
trades only government securities, the definition of Government Securities ATS clarifies which
regulatory requirements are applicable for trading activity in government securities and nongovernment securities. For example, a Government Securities ATS would file a Form ATS-N
specifically disclosing information regarding its trading in government securities, which would
enable market participants to understand the ATS’s government securities operations and readily
compare the ATS against other Government Securities ATSs.
To provide that the same approach applies to broker-dealers that operate NMS Stock
ATSs and non-NMS Stock ATSs, and to clarify requirements applicable to NMS Stock ATSs,
the Commission is proposing to amend the definition of “NMS Stock ATS” to state that an NMS
Stock ATS shall not trade securities other than NMS stocks.254 Today, securities other than
NMS stocks are not traded in any NMS Stock ATS and the proposed amendment to the
definition of NMS Stock ATS would have no impact on any existing ATS nor on the
requirements applicable to existing NMS Stock ATSs. Broker-dealer operators of NMS Stock
ATSs are currently required to file a Form ATS-N for NMS Stock ATS operations and a separate
Form ATS for any non-NMS Stock ATS operations.255 This would not change under this

252 See infra Section IV.D.4.f.
253 See infra Section IV.D.5.k.
254 See proposed Rule 300(k).
255 See current Rule 301(b)(2)(viii).
78
proposal. In addition, to facilitate the orderly transition to the heightened requirements for
Government Securities ATSs that are currently operating, the Commission is defining such ATSs
as Legacy Government Securities ATSs.256
To help specify which ATSs are subject to Rule 304 requirements, the Commission is
proposing to define “Covered ATS” as an NMS Stock ATS or Government Securities ATS, as
applicable.257 The Commission is also proposing to define “Covered Newly Designated ATS” to
mean a Newly Designated ATS that is a Government Securities ATS or NMS Stock ATS, which
the Commission believes would facilitate the transition of Communication Protocol Systems that
are NMS Stock ATSs or Government Securities ATSs to the regulatory requirements of
Regulation ATS.
258
The Commission is also proposing to add definitions of “U.S. Treasury Security” and
“Agency Security” for purposes of Regulation ATS.259 “U.S. Treasury Security” would mean a
security issued by the U.S. Department of the Treasury. “Agency Security” would mean a debt
security issued or guaranteed by a U.S. executive agency, as defined in 5 U.S.C. 105, or
government-sponsored enterprise, as defined in 2 U.S.C. 622(8). The proposed definitions are
designed to provide the scope of securities a Government Securities ATS must include when
calculating whether the fair access requirements set forth in Rule 301(b)(5) are applicable and to
facilitate compliance with the Fair Access Rule.260

256 See proposed Rule 300(n). See also supra note 5. See infra notes 433-439 and
accompanying text for a description of the filing and effectiveness rules applicable to
Legacy Government Securities ATSs.
257 See proposed Rule 300(m).
258 See proposed Rule 300(s).
259 See proposed Rule 300(o)-(p).
260 See infra Section III.B.4. The proposed definitions are similar to those in FINRA’s rules.
See FINRA Rules 6710(l) and 6710(p).
79
Request for Comment
12. Should the Commission adopt a more limited or expansive definition of Government
Securities ATS than the definition that is being proposed? Given that, unlike the 2020
Proposal, the definition of Government Securities ATS would now include
Communication Protocol Systems that transact in government securities and/or repos, do
commenters believe that the definition of Government Securities ATS should be limited
or expanded?
13. Should the Commission cite to the section 3(a)(42) (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(42)) definition of
government securities for purposes of defining Government Securities ATS? Should the
securities encompassed by the definition (e.g., certain options on government securities)
be considered “government securities” for purposes of this regulation?
14. Should the Commission modify the proposed definitions of U.S. Treasury Securities and
Agency Securities in any way? For example, should the proposed definitions of U.S.
Treasury Securities and Agency Securities be based on definitions in any other existing
rules?
15. The proposed amendments to the definitions of NMS Stock ATS and Government
Securities ATS are not designed to limit a broker-dealer operator for an NMS Stock ATS
or Government Securities ATS with respect to other types of securities that the brokerdealer operator may make available for trading in an ATS that is subject to Rule
301(b)(2) of Regulation ATS or how the broker-dealer operator may structure the
operations of its ATS businesses. Would the proposed amendments to the definitions of
NMS Stock ATS and Government Securities ATS impose any operational or other
burdens on the broker-dealer operator, other than those related to filing Form ATS, Form
ATS-R, or Form ATS-N, as applicable?
80
16. Should the Commission require an ATS that currently trades government securities and
non-government securities, such as corporate bonds, to comply with Rule 304, including
filing a Form ATS-N, with respect to the ATS’s corporate bond activities as well as its
government securities activities?
2. Proposed Elimination of the Exemption for ATSs that Limit Securities
Activities to Government Securities and Repos
The Commission is re-proposing amendments to Regulation ATS that would require a
Currently Exempted Government Securities ATS that seeks to operate pursuant to the exemption
from the definition of an “exchange” under Exchange Act Rule 3a1-1(a)(2), and thus not be
required to be registered as a national securities exchange, to comply with Regulation ATS. The
Commission is proposing to eliminate the exemption under Rule 301(a)(4) of Regulation ATS,
which exempts from the definition of an “exchange” under Section 3(a)(1) of the Exchange Act
an ATS that is operated by a registered broker-dealer or a bank that solely trades government
securities or repos.261 As a result, Currently Exempted Government Securities ATSs would
either have to register as an exchange or operate pursuant to an exemption to such registration,
such as the exemption under Regulation ATS.262 A Currently Exempted Government Securities
ATS that opts to comply with Regulation ATS would then be subject to the conditions to the
exemption from exchange registration that are designed to provide its subscribers with investor
protections and enable Commission oversight, including the surveillance and examination of

261 See 17 CFR 240.3a1-1(a)(3) and 17 CFR 242.301(a)(4).
262 The Commission is proposing to delete the text of Rule 301(a)(4)(ii)(A)-(C) and replace
each paragraph with the term “Reserved.” Based on Commission staff experience, ATSs
generally do not trade commercial paper, and the Commission is not proposing to
eliminate Rule 301(a)(4)(ii)(D), which exempts an ATS from compliance with
Regulation ATS if the ATS limits its securities activities to commercial paper.
Accordingly, the only ATSs that would continue to be exempt under Rule 301(a)(4)
would be ATSs that are registered broker-dealers or are banks and limit their securities
activities to commercial paper.
81
ATSs, and to help assure fair and orderly markets.263 The Commission is also proposing to
subject Currently Exempted Government Securities ATSs to the enhanced public transparency
requirements of Rule 304 and Form ATS-N.
In response to the 2020 Proposal, several commenters expressed support for eliminating
the exemption for ATSs that both (1) limit their securities activities to government securities or
repos and (2) either register as broker-dealers or are banks.264 Commenters stated such
requirements would help impose regulatory oversight,265 and one commenter stated that the
requirements could promote market transparency, resiliency, and integrity.266 One commenter
stated that requiring Currently Exempted Government Securities ATSs to adopt written
safeguards and procedures to protect subscriber confidential trading information could help
protect the integrity of a subscriber’s confidential trading information that could otherwise be at
risk of unauthorized disclosure and subject to potential misuse.267 In addition, commenters
specifically expressed support for the requirement that all Government Securities ATSs register
as broker-dealers, stating that such requirement would provide regulatory oversight with regard
to risk management and regulatory controls.268

263 See Regulation ATS Adopting Release, supra note 31, at 70878. See also infra notes
287-297 and accompanying text.
264 See, e.g., SIFMA Letter at 2 (stating that given that Government Securities ATSs closely
resemble ATSs that trade NMS stocks, it would be appropriate to impose similar
regulatory oversight over such trading venues); FINRA Letter at 2; BrokerTec Letter at 2;
ICE Bonds Letter I at 2.
265 See SIFMA Letter at 2; FINRA Letter at 2; MFA Letter at 3; ICE Bonds Letter I at 2; and
AFREF Letter at 2-3 (stating that the regulatory extension would help to discourage some
of the deceptive and manipulative trading practices that occur in government securities
markets).
266 See Citadel Letter.
267 See MFA Letter at 3.
268 See SIFMA Letter at 2.
82
One commenter suggested the Commission consider subjecting ATSs for a class of
securities to an enhanced regime if the ATSs trading in that asset class are “significant”; the
commenter suggested that the Commission may recognize 30 percent as the threshold for
“significant” threshold, and noted that equity-NMS Stock ATSs were matching about 30 percent
of the total share volume when Regulation ATS was implemented.269 The commenter suggested
that the Commission apply this test when considering removing the exemption for Currently
Exempted Government Securities ATSs and that the Commission make proposed Form ATS-G
public when the ATSs are “significant” with respect to trading volume.270 The Commission is
not, however, proposing a specific trading volume test to determine whether to remove the
exemption for Currently Exempted Government Securities ATSs. In addition to the significant
volume in government securities transacted on ATSs (as well as Communication Protocol
Systems),271 the Commission also recognizes that government securities have a critical role in
the U.S. and global economy and ATSs have grown in importance to investors and overall
securities market structure for purposes of the execution and pricing of government securities.
The Commission is also proposing to amend Rule 301(b)(1) of Regulation ATS, which
currently requires an ATS to register as a broker-dealer under Section 15 of the Exchange Act,272
to allow an ATS to register either as a broker-dealer under Exchange Act Section 15 or a
government securities broker or government securities dealer under Exchange Act Section

269 See Bloomberg Letter at 4.
270 See id.
271 See, e.g., supra note 197 and accompanying text (describing that, on the interdealer
market, the majority of trading currently occurs on ATSs). See also infra note 840 and
accompanying text (describing that Communication Protocol Systems account for
approximately 30 to 40 percent of total electronic trading volume on multilateral U.S.
Treasury trading venues).
272 15 U.S.C. 78o.
83
15C(a)(1)(A).273 Registration pursuant to Section 15C(a)(1)(A) specifically applies to
government securities brokers and dealers other than registered broker-dealers or financial
institutions.274 Registration as a broker-dealer under Section 15 or government securities broker
or government securities dealer under Section 15C(a)(1)(A) of the Exchange Act is important
because, among other things, it requires membership in an SRO, such as FINRA.275 Because
ATSs that register as broker-dealers or government securities brokers or dealers do not have selfregulatory responsibilities, the Commission believes it is important for these ATSs to be
members of an SRO and thus subject to SRO examination and market surveillance,276 trade
reporting obligations,277 and certain investor protection rules.278 Like ATSs registered as brokerdealers under Section 15, an ATS registered as a government securities broker or government

273 See 15 U.S.C. 78o-5. Exchange Act Section 15C(a)(1)(A) makes it unlawful for a
government securities broker or government securities dealer (other than a registered
broker or dealer or a financial institution) to make use of the mails or any means or
instrumentality of interstate commerce to effect a transaction in any government
securities unless the government securities broker or government securities dealer is
registered with Commission pursuant to Exchange Act Section 15C(a)(2). See 15 U.S.C.
78o-5(a)(1)(A). Section 15C(e) in turn generally requires that a government securities
broker or government securities dealer that is registered or required to be registered under
Section 15C(a)(1)(A) must be a member of a registered national securities exchange or
registered securities association such as FINRA.
274 Broker-dealers that limit their activity to government securities require specialized
registration under Section 15C of the Exchange Act and do not have to register as
general-purpose broker-dealers under Section 15(b). See 15 U.S.C. 78o-5.
275 See Regulation ATS Adopting Release, supra note 31, at 70863 (discussing the
importance of an ATS being a member of an SRO because ATSs registered as brokerdealers will not have self-regulatory responsibilities). As noted above, Section 15C(e)
generally requires SRO membership for a government securities broker or government
securities dealer that is registered or required to be registered under Section
15C(a)(1)(A). Similarly, Section 15(b)(8) generally requires a registered broker-dealer to
be a member of a registered securities association such as FINRA.
276 See, e.g., FINRA Rule 1000 Series, FINRA Rules 4140, 4510, 4520, 4530, and 8210.
277 See, e.g., FINRA Rule 6730.
278 See, e.g., FINRA Rules 3110, 4370, 5210, 5220, 5230, 5310, and 5340.
84
securities dealer under Section 15C(a)(1)(A) would be subject to oversight and market
surveillance by an SRO.279
In contrast, SRO membership is not required for a bank or other financial institution that
registers as a government securities broker or dealer.280 Accordingly, the amendment to
Regulation ATS would not permit a bank or other financial institution to satisfy the broker-dealer
registration requirement by registering as a government securities broker or government
securities dealer under Section 15C(a)(1)(B) of the Exchange Act.281 The Commission believes
it is important for an ATS to be a member of an SRO, and unlike registrants under Sections 15
and 15C(a)(1)(A), a bank or other financial institution that registers under Section 15C(a)(1)(B)
is not required to be a member of an SRO.282

279 See Regulation ATS Adopting Release, supra note 31, at 70863.
280 Unlike registered broker-dealers (Section 15(b)(8)) and government securities brokers or
government securities dealers that are registered or required to be registered under
Section 15C(a)(1)(A) (Section 15C(e)), there is no statutory requirement of SRO
membership for banks. Because banks typically operate in reliance on exceptions from
broker or dealer status, they are not required to become a member of an SRO, such as
FINRA. In this regard, Exchange Act Section 3(a)(4)(B)(iii)(II) excludes from the
definition of “broker” a bank that effects transactions in “exempted securities” such as
government securities. 15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(4)(B)(iii)(II). See Exchange Act Section
3(a)(12) (defining “exempted securities” to include “government securities” as defined in
Section 3(a)(42) of the Exchange Act). Exchange Act Section 3(a)(5)(C)(i)(II) similarly
excepts from the definition of “dealer” a bank that buys or sells exempted securities. 15
U.S.C. 78c(a)(5)(C)(i)(II).
281 Exchange Act Section 15C(a)(1)(B) makes it unlawful for any government securities
broker or government securities dealer that is a registered broker or dealer or a financial
institution to make use of the mails or any means or instrumentality of interstate
commerce to effect any transaction in, or to induce or attempt to induce
the purchase or sale of, any government security unless such government securities
broker or government securities dealer has filed with the appropriate regulatory agency
written notice that it is a government securities broker or government securities dealer.
15 U.S.C. 78o-5(a)(1)(B)(i).
282 See Exchange Act Sections 3(a)(6) (defining “bank”) and 3(a)(46) (defining “financial
institution”).
85
As a result, a bank-operated ATS that trades only government securities or repos would
be unable to rely on the exemption provided by Regulation ATS, as proposed to be amended, and
could not otherwise operate unless registered as a national securities exchange as required by
Section 5 of the Exchange Act. However, this is the case currently with respect to bank-operated
ATSs that trade securities other than government securities, and it is the Commission’s
understanding that these ATSs often are operated by bank affiliates that are themselves
registered broker-dealers, rather than by the banks themselves. The Commission believes that a
bank that operates an ATS that trades only government securities might adopt a similar
registered affiliate structure for its government securities operations, such as by moving its ATS
operations into a new or existing broker-dealer affiliate of the bank.
In addition to Rule 301(b)(1) of Regulation ATS, which most Currently Exempted
Government Securities ATSs already satisfy,
283 a Currently Exempted Government Securities
ATS would be required to comply with other conditions of the Regulation ATS exemption, as
proposed to be amended. This includes Rule 304, which would require that Government
Securities ATSs file Form ATS-N. Government Securities ATSs would not, however, be subject
to the order display and execution access provisions under Rule 301(b)(3) or the fees provision
of Rule 301(b)(4) that are applicable only to NMS Stock ATSs.284 The Commission is proposing
to require Government Securities ATSs that meet a certain volume threshold to comply with the

283 See supra text accompanying note 226 (stating that most Currently Exempted
Government Securities ATSs register as broker-dealers with the Commission). For those
Currently Exempted Government Securities ATSs that are operating as banks and not
registered broker-dealers, the Commission is proposing to amend Rule 301(b)(1) to
provide a transition period to allow them to operate without interruption while their
broker-dealer registration is pending until the earlier of the date the alternative trading
system registers as a broker-dealer under section 15 of the Act or section 15C(a)(1)(A) of
the Act and becomes a member of a national securities association; or the date 210
calendar days after effective date of any final rule. See supra note 177.
284 See 17 CFR 242.301(b)(3)-(4).
86
Fair Access Rule with respect to trading in U.S. Treasury Securities and Agency Securities.285
Because the Commission is proposing to apply Regulation SCI to certain Government Securities
ATSs that trade U.S. Treasury Securities and/or Agency Securities, the Capacity, Integrity, and
Security Rule under Rule 301(b)(6) would not apply to the trading of government securities on
ATSs.286
The Commission believes that it is important that all Government Securities ATSs,
including Currently Exempted Government Securities ATSs, be subject to the conditions of the
Regulation ATS exemption, which are designed to protect investors and to facilitate Commission
oversight. Accordingly, the Commission is re-proposing that a Currently Exempted Government
Securities ATS must:
• Permit the examination and inspection of its premises, systems, and records, and
cooperate with the examination, inspection, or investigation of subscribers, whether
such examination is being conducted by the Commission or by an SRO of which such
subscriber is a member, pursuant to Rule 301(b)(7).287 The Commission believes that
because subscribers to whom the Commission’s inspection authority may not extend
could use a Currently Exempted Government Securities ATS to manipulate the
market in a security, it is important that these ATSs cooperate in all inspections,
examinations, and investigations.288

285 See infra Section III.B.4.
286 See infra Section III.C.
287 See 17 CFR 242.301(b)(7). See also Regulation ATS Adopting Release, supra note 31,
Section IV.A.2.f.
288 See Regulation ATS Adopting Release, supra note 31, at 70877.
87
• Make and keep certain records specified in Rule 302289 and preserve records specified
in Rule 303,290 pursuant to Rule 301(b)(8).291 The recordkeeping requirements would
require the Currently Exempted Government Securities ATSs to make and keep
certain records for an audit trail of trading activity that would allow the Commission
to examine whether the ATS is in compliance with Federal securities laws.292
• Periodically report certain information about transactions in the ATS and information
about certain activities on Form ATS-R within 30 calendar days after the end of each
calendar quarter in which the market has operated pursuant to Rule 301(b)(9).293 The
information reported on Form ATS-R by Currently Exempted Government Securities
ATSs will permit the Commission to monitor the trading on these ATSs for
compliance with the Exchange Act and applicable rules thereunder and enforce the
Fair Access Rule.294
• Adopt written safeguards and written procedures to protect confidential trading
information and to separate ATS functions from other broker-dealer functions,
including principal and customer trading pursuant to Rule 301(b)(10).295 The
Commission believes that applying the requirements of Rule 301(b)(10) to Currently

289 See supra note 163.
290 See supra notes 164 and 166.
291 See 17 CFR 242.301(b)(8). See also Regulation ATS Adopting Release, supra note 31,
Section IV.A.2.g.
292 See Regulation ATS Adopting Release, supra note 31, at 70878.
293 See 17 CFR 242.301(b)(9). See also supra notes 144-148 and infra Section III.B.4.
294 See Regulation ATS Adopting Release, supra note 31, at 70874 and 70878.
295 See 17 CFR 242.301(b)(10); infra note 168; NMS Stock ATS Adopting Release, supra
note 2, Section VI.
88
Exempted Government Securities ATSs will help prevent the potential for abuse of
subscriber confidential trading information.296
• Not use in its name the word “exchange,” or any derivation of the word “exchange”
pursuant to Rule 301(b)(11).297 The Commission believes that the use of the word
“exchange” by an ATS, including a Currently Exempted Government Securities ATS,
would be deceptive and could lead investors to believe incorrectly that such ATS is
registered as a national securities exchange.298
Request for Comment
17. Should the Commission amend Regulation ATS to eliminate the exemption from
compliance with Regulation ATS under Rule 301(a)(4)(ii)(A) for all Currently Exempted
Government Securities ATS, including those operated by banks?
18. Should the proposed elimination of the exemption from compliance with Regulation ATS
only apply to Government Securities ATSs that trade a certain type of government
security (e.g., only U.S. Treasury Securities or only Agency Securities)? Should the
proposed elimination of the exemption from compliance with Regulation ATS only apply
to Government Securities ATSs that trade government securities (and not repos)? If so,
for which type of Government Securities ATS should the exemption be eliminated?
19. Should Government Securities ATSs seeking to operate pursuant to the exemption
provided by Regulation ATS have the alternative option to satisfy broker-dealer
registration with the Commission pursuant to Section 15C(a)(1)(A)?

296 See NMS Stock ATS Adopting Release, supra note 2, at 38864.
297 See 17 CFR 242.301(b)(11); Regulation ATS Adopting Release, supra note 31, Section
II.C.
298 See Regulation ATS Proposing Release, supra note 173.
89
20. Should the Commission adopt any alternatives to requiring Government Securities ATSs
to register with the Commission as broker-dealers under Section 15 or Section
15C(a)(1)(A)? For example, should the Commission amend Rule 301(b)(1) of
Regulation ATS to include an alternative for a bank to register as a government securities
broker or dealer pursuant to Section 15C(a)(1)(B), which would not require the bank to
become a member of an SRO?
21. Should there be a transition period for Currently Exempted Government Securities ATSs
that are currently operated by banks to comply with the proposed amendments to Rule
301(b)(1), including ATSs provided and operated by an affiliate of the bank? Should the
Commission allow a Currently Exempted Government Securities ATS that is not
registered as a broker-dealer to operate pursuant to the Rule 3a1-1(a)(2) exemption on a
provisional basis? Does the proposal to allow such ATSs a maximum 210 calendar days
from the effective date to comply with the broker-dealer registration requirement provide
an appropriate amount of time to register as a broker-dealer? If not, what, if any,
transition period would be appropriate? For Currently Exempted Securities ATSs that are
currently operated by banks, should there be a different transition period? If so, why?
22. Should there be a transition period for Currently Exempted Government Securities ATSs
or Covered Newly Designated ATSs to comply with all or some of the requirements of
Regulation ATS? If so, which requirements would require such a transition period, and
how long should such transition period be?
23. Should the Commission amend Regulation ATS to remove the exemption from
Regulation ATS for ATSs that limit their securities activities to commercial paper? Do
market participants use ATSs to trade commercial paper? If so, how is commercial paper
traded on an ATS? Should the Commission remove any other exemption from
Regulation ATS available under Rule 301?
90
24. Should the Commission require Currently Exempted Government Securities ATSs to
comply with all of the requirements of Regulation ATS applicable to all ATSs that are
currently required to comply with Regulation ATS? If not, which requirements should a
Currently Exempted Government Securities ATS not be required to comply with and
why?
3. Filing Requirements for Broker-Dealers that Operate ATSs that Trade
Government Securities and Non-Government Securities
The Commission is re-proposing to revise Rule 301(b)(2)(viii)299 of Regulation ATS to
provide that a Legacy Government Securities ATS that is operating pursuant to a Form ATS as
of the effective date of any final rule will continue to be subject to the Rule 301(b)(2)
requirements to file a Form ATS. However, once the ATS files a Form ATS-N, it will no longer
be subject to Rule 301(b)(2)(i) through (vii) and will instead be subject to the reporting
requirements under Rule 304, which provides the rules for filing of Form ATS-N. The
Commission is also proposing to provide that as of the effective date of any final rule, an entity
seeking to operate as a Government Securities ATS will not be subject to the requirements of
Rule 301(b)(2)(i) through (vii) and will instead be required to file reports under Rule 304. In
addition, the Commission is proposing rules to make clear that a Currently Exempted
Government Securities ATS would be subject to Rule 304 and would not be subject to Rule
 299 17 CFR 242.301(b)(2)(viii). Current Rule 301(b)(2)(viii) provides that NMS Stock ATSs
must file with the Commission the reports and amendments required by Rule 304 and that
NMS Stock ATSs are not subject to Rule 301(b)(2). NMS Stock ATSs or entities
seeking to operate as NMS Stock ATSs would continue to file reports pursuant to Rule
304. Because the Commission review period for all Forms ATS-N filed by Legacy NMS
Stock ATSs ended in October 2019, the Commission is proposing to delete references in
Rule 301(b)(2)(viii) to Legacy NMS Stock ATSs. The Commission is also proposing to
consolidate the current provisions of Rule 301(b)(2)(viii) applicable to NMS Stock ATSs
to state that NMS Stock ATSs or entities seeking to operate as an NMS Stock ATS shall
not be subject to the requirements of Rule 301(b)(2)(i) through (vii) and would be subject
to Rule 304.
91
301(b)(2)(i) through (viii). These rules are designed to prevent Government Securities ATSs
from being subject to potentially duplicative requirements in Rule 304 and Rule 301(b)(2).
The Commission is proposing to amend Rule 301(b)(2)(viii) to make clear that Covered
ATSs are required to file reports pursuant to § 242.304 and ATSs that are not Covered ATSs are
subject to Rule 301(b)(2).300 Today, there are some broker-dealers that operate multiple types of
ATSs that trade different types of securities (e.g., NMS Stock ATS and non-NMS Stock ATS) or
operate multiple ATSs that trade the same type of securities but are separate and distinct from
each other (e.g., a broker-dealer registered for, and operates, two NMS Stock ATSs, each of
which maintains a separate book of orders that is governed by distinct priority and order
interaction rules for one type of security).301 In both instances, each of the ATSs must comply
with Regulation ATS.302 The Commission is proposing to add to Rule 301(b)(2)(viii) to provide
that each NMS Stock ATS or Government Securities ATS that is operated by a broker-dealer
that is the registered broker-dealer for more than one ATS must comply with Regulation ATS,
including the filing requirements of Rule 304. The Commission believes that the proposed
language makes clear that the proposal would not require compliance with the heightened
transparency requirements of Regulation ATS for ATSs that are not NMS Stock ATSs or
Government Securities ATSs. Under the proposal, a broker-dealer operator, for example, for an

300 The Commission is also proposing to amend Rule 301(b)(2)(viii) to state that Covered
Newly Designated ATSs will be subject to Rule 304.
301 The Commission is proposing that, for the purposes of calculating volume thresholds for
the Fair Access Rule, the average trading volume of ATSs that are operated by a common
broker-dealer, or ATSs operated by affiliated broker-dealers, will be aggregated. See
infra Section V.A.2.
302 See Rule 3a1-1(a)(2) (providing that an organization, association, or group of persons
shall be exempt from the definition of “exchange” if it is in compliance with Regulation
ATS) and Rule 301(a) (providing that an ATS shall comply with the requirements of
Rule 301(b)).
92
ATS that noticed on its initial operation report on Form ATS that the ATS trades government
securities and corporate debt securities would be the broker-dealer operator for two types of
ATSs that would be separate from each other with regard to trading these types of securities and
each would comply with Regulation ATS. These two types of ATSs would be (1) a Government
Securities ATS that would file a Form ATS-N with respect to government securities and (2) a
non-Government Securities ATS that would file a Form ATS with respect to corporate debt.303
In addition, each of the two ATSs would be required to comply with the conditions to Regulation
ATS, including, among other things, adopting written safeguards and written procedures to
protect subscriber confidential trading information for the ATS pursuant to Rule 301(b)(10) and
making and keeping records for the ATS pursuant to Rule 301(b)(8).304
The Commission also is proposing to amend Rule 301(b)(9) of Regulation ATS.305 This
rule requires an ATS to report transaction volume in various types of securities, including
government securities and repos, on Form ATS-R on a quarterly basis and within 10 calendar
days after it ceases operation.306 As discussed above, the Commission is proposing to define
“Government Securities ATS” and to clarify the definition of “NMS Stock ATS” to make clear

303 Under the proposed rules, a broker-dealer operator for an ATS that currently trades
government securities and corporate bonds, for example, would file a Form ATS-N to
disclose its government securities activities for the Government Securities ATS. The
broker-dealer operator would disclose the corporate bond activities of its existing ATS by
filing with the Commission a material amendment to its Form ATS pursuant to Rule
301(b)(2)(ii) of Regulation ATS to remove information regarding government securities
activities. See Regulation ATS Adopting Release, supra note 31, at 70864 (discussing
circumstances under which an ATS would file a material amendment to Form ATS
pursuant to Rule 301(b)(2), which, among other things, includes changes to the operating
platform, the types of securities traded, or types of subscribers).
304 See supra note 246 and accompanying text.
305 See 17 CFR 242.301(b)(9).
306 The information filed on Form ATS-R permits the Commission to monitor trading on an
ATS. See Regulation ATS Adopting Release, supra note 31, at 70878.
93
that a Government Securities ATS cannot trade securities other than government securities or
repos and that an NMS Stock ATS cannot trade securities other than NMS stocks.307 For
example, a Government Securities ATS operated by a broker-dealer that is also the registered
broker-dealer for a non-Government Securities ATS would be required to file a Form ATS-R for
the Government Securities ATS and a separate Form ATS-R for the non-Government Securities
ATS. The Commission is proposing to amend Rule 301(b)(9) by removing language stating that
an ATS must “separately file” a Form ATS-R for transactions in NMS stocks and for
transactions in securities other than NMS stocks to simplify the text and convey that each ATS,
even if operated by a broker-dealer that operates other ATSs, must file a Form ATS-R. This is
consistent with the current Form ATS-R filing process for a broker-dealer that operates an NMS
Stock ATS and non-NMS Stock ATS.308
Request for Comment
25. Should an NMS Stock ATS or Government Securities ATS that is operated by a brokerdealer that is a registered broker-dealer for more than one ATS be subject to Rule 304
independent of any other ATS operated by its broker-dealer?
26. Should a broker-dealer that is the registered broker-dealer for more than one ATS be
required to file separate Forms ATS-R for each of the ATSs it operates?
27. Should a broker-dealer that is the registered broker-dealer for an ATS that trades
government securities or repos and an ATS that trades NMS stocks be required to file
separate Forms ATS-N for each of the ATSs it operates?
28. Should the Commission allow a broker-dealer operator of an NMS Stock ATS or a
Government Securities ATS to disclose on its Form ATS-N its non-government securities

307 See supra notes 244 and 254 and accompanying text.
308 See NMS Stock ATS Adopting Release, supra note 2, Section III.B.5.
94
or non-NMS stock activities, in addition to its government securities or NMS stock
activities, on a voluntary basis?
29. Do commenters believe that additional changes or requirements to the ATS framework
are needed? For example, should the Commission propose amendments to Regulation
ATS to require ATSs that trade equity securities other than NMS stocks, corporate debt
securities, municipal securities, or any other category of securities to comply with Rule
304, including filing with the Commission public Form ATS-N and requiring their Forms
ATS-N to be subject to Commission review and effectiveness processes?
4. Application of Fair Access to Government Securities ATSs
The Fair Access Rule, as proposed to be amended and as described in detail below,
309
requires an ATS to, among other things, establish and apply reasonable written standards for
granting access on its system. Today, the Fair Access Rule only applies if an ATS’s trading
volume for certain securities or a certain type of securities exceeds an average daily volume
threshold during a period time set forth in the rule. Currently, the Fair Access Rule only applies
to the trading of NMS stocks, equity securities that are not NMS stocks and for which
transactions are reported to an SRO, municipal securities, and corporate debt securities, but not
to trading in government securities.310
The Fair Access Rule was designed to ensure that qualified market participants have fair
access to the significant sources of liquidity in the U.S. securities markets. When Regulation
ATS was adopted, the Commission explained that the fair treatment by ATSs of potential and
current subscribers is particularly important when an ATS captures a large percentage of trading

309 See infra Section V.A. See also proposed Rule 301(b)(5)(iii).
310 See 17 CFR 242.301(b)(5)(i).
95
volume in a security, because viable alternatives to trading on such a system are limited.311 The
Commission further explained that if an ATS has a significantly large percentage of the volume
of trading in a security or type of security, unfairly discriminatory actions can hurt investors
lacking access to that ATS.312 Currently, however, Regulation ATS does not provide a
mechanism to prevent unfair denials or limitations of access by ATSs that trade U.S. Treasury
Securities or Agency Securities or regulatory oversight of such denials or limitations of access.
Today, the principles undergirding the Fair Access Rule are equally relevant to a Government
Securities ATS, and amending the Fair Access Rule to include the trading of U.S. Treasury
Securities and Agency Securities would help ensure the fair treatment of potential and current
subscribers to ATSs that consist of a large percentage of trading volume in these two types of
securities.313
In the 2020 Proposal, the Commission proposed that a Government Securities ATS
would be subject to the Fair Access Rule if during at least four of the preceding six calendar
months, the Government Securities ATS had: (1) with respect to U.S. Treasury Securities, five
percent or more of the average weekly dollar volume traded in the United States as provided by
the SRO to which such transactions are reported; or (2) with respect to Agency Securities, five
percent or more of the average daily dollar volume traded in the United States as provided by the
SRO to which such transactions are reported.

311 See Regulation ATS Adopting Release, supra note 31, at 70872.
312 See id.
313 Under the proposal, the Fair Access Rule would not apply to trading of repos, including
repos on U.S. Treasury Securities and Agency Securities. The Commission notes FINRA
does not require ATSs to report transactions for repos. The Commission is requesting
comment on its preliminary assessment and on whether the Commission should amend
Regulation ATS to require Government Securities ATSs that meet certain volume
thresholds for the trading of repos, including repos on U.S. Treasury Securities and
Agency Securities, to be subject to the requirements of the Fair Access Rule.
96
In response to the 2020 Proposal, commenters generally supported amending Regulation
ATS to apply the Fair Access Rule for Government Securities ATSs that meet certain trading
thresholds.314 Some commenters stated that the proposed amendments would ensure that market
participants are not unreasonably denied access from important sources of liquidity for a
particular security,315 and prevent discriminatory actions that could hurt investors, and
potentially result in higher trading costs and a reduction in trading efficiency.316 One commenter
stated that the Commission should, as was proposed in the 2020 Proposal, apply the thresholds to
all types of U.S. Treasury Securities and Agency Securities, each on an aggregate basis.317 One
commenter, however, suggested that the Commission may apply the fair access thresholds to onthe-run securities that are “likely” to trade on an ATS as off-the-run securities are less liquid and
tend to trade using other methods.318
The Commission is re-proposing to apply the Fair Access Rule to the trading of
government securities on an ATS with certain revisions. After considering comments received,
proposed changes to Exchange Act Rule 3b-16, and further analysis of the U.S. Treasury

314 See, e.g., SIFMA Letter; MFA Letter; ICE Bonds Letter I; and Healthy Markets Letter.
315 See SIFMA Letter at 4. See also ICI Letter at 4 (stating that funds generally are not able
to directly access liquidity on most of these platforms, and that applying the fair access
requirements would enhance the ability of funds to onboard and participate on these
platforms directly and would generally enhance market structure for U.S. Treasury
Securities and benefit fund shareholders); FIA PTG Letter at 2 (stating that the
requirements will ensure qualified market participants have access to the government
securities market).
316 See MFA Letter at 4. See also ICI Letter at 4 (stating that the fair access requirements
would enable the Commission to evaluate ATS standards and determine whether they are
being applied in an unfair or discriminatory manner).
317 See Tradeweb Letter at 3 (stating that the Commission should not, for example,
distinguish between on-the-run and off-the-run U.S. Treasury Securities, and that a
broader measure of market significance is preferable in order to provide for more stable
application of the Fair Access Rule); ICE Bonds Letter I at 5.
318 See Bloomberg Letter at 5 (noting that FINRA’s aggregated weekly data report currently
segments the data into on-the-run/off-the-run and dealer-to-dealer and dealer-to-customer
transactions).
97
Securities markets, as explained further below, the Commission is proposing to revise the
average weekly trading volume percentage for ATSs trading U.S. Treasury Securities from the
threshold proposed in the 2020 Proposal. Accordingly, the Commission is proposing that a
Government Securities ATS will be subject to the Fair Access Rule if, during at least four of the
preceding six calendar months: (1) it had three percent or more of the U.S. Treasury Securities
average weekly dollar volume traded in the United States as provided by the SRO to which such
transactions are reported; or (2) it had five percent or more of the Agency Securities average
daily dollar volume traded in the United States as provided by the SRO to which such
transactions are reported.
First, the Commission is re-proposing that the thresholds include only securities for
which transactions are reported to an SRO, and the volume thresholds are based on how the SRO
subsequently reports that volume to the public. FINRA publishes weekly aggregate data on U.S.
Treasury Securities based on the mandatory transaction reports of its members to TRACE, and
disseminates transaction data about Agency Securities immediately upon receipt of a transaction
report.319 Currently, FINRA neither provides individual trade reports nor aggregates daily
volume data for U.S. Treasury Securities transactions to TRACE subscribers (or to the public).
FINRA, however, provides individual trade reports for all Agency Securities transactions to
TRACE subscribers.320 Accordingly, because weekly dollar volume data about transactions in
U.S. Treasury Securities and daily dollar volume data about transactions in Agency Securities

319 See supra note 229.
320 The Commission believes that the vast majority – and likely, all – broker-dealer operators
of Legacy Government Securities ATSs that trade Agency Securities currently subscribe
to TRACE. Communication Protocol Systems that are not currently FINRA members,
however, are not required to report to TRACE. The Commission is requesting public
comment on the extent to which Government Securities ATSs (which may include
Legacy Government Securities ATSs and Communication Protocol Systems) have access
to TRACE trade reports for Agency Securities.
98
are publicly available via TRACE, Government Securities ATSs will be able to readily calculate
whether they meet the applicable thresholds.321
Second, the Commission continues to believe that separate volume thresholds for U.S.
Treasury Securities and Agency Securities would best advance the investor protection goals of
the Fair Access Rule.322 The proposed volume thresholds would help ensure that the Fair Access
Rule is appropriately tailored so that it only applies to the category of security for which an ATS
has significant trading volume.323 The Commission believes that it would be unnecessary and
overly burdensome to require a Government Securities ATS to comply with the Fair Access Rule
for a category of government security for which that ATS does not have significant volume.
Furthermore, the Commission now proposes different trading volume thresholds for U.S.
Treasury Securities and Agency Securities. As such, the Commission believes it would be
impractical for the Fair Access Rule to combine trading volume in these two types of securities
to determine whether a Government Securities ATS has triggered its requirements.
Third, the Commission believes that it is appropriate to determine these volume
thresholds on a category basis.324 Given that U.S. Treasury Securities and Agency Securities are

321 In response to the 2020 Proposal, one commenter stated that the proposal would need to
be based on “weekly par value traded” because FINRA publishes volume data on a
weekly basis. See Bloomberg Letter at 6. The Commission believes that data to
calculate the proposed threshold, which is based on dollar volume published by FINRA
on a weekly basis, would be readily available.
322 In response to the 2020 Proposal, one commenter stated that it supports applying the Fair
Access Rule to all types of U.S. Treasury Securities and all types of Agency Securities,
each on an aggregate basis. See Tradeweb Letter at 3.
323 For example, suppose a Government Securities ATS has significant trading volume in
U.S. Treasury Securities but not Agency Securities. In this example, the proposed rule
would help ensure that investors receive fair access to the ATS’s services with respect to
U.S. Treasury Securities, but it would not require the ATS to provide fair access for its
Agency Securities services.
324 In response to the 2020 Proposal, some commenters stated that they support applying the
thresholds on an aggregate basis. See ICE Bonds Letter at 6 and Tradeweb Letter at 3.
99
types of debt securities, doing so would be consistent with the Fair Access Rule’s application to
other categories of fixed income securities (i.e., corporate bonds and municipal securities). The
Fair Access Rule applies on a security-by-security basis for NMS stocks and equity securities
that are not NMS stocks, and on a category basis for corporate bonds and municipal securities.
Fourth, the Commission is proposing that a Government Securities ATS would be
required to comply with the Fair Access Rule only if it has met at least one of the applicable
volume thresholds during at least four of the preceding six calendar months.325 For ATSs that
trade Agency Securities, this is the same time period for evaluating the applicability of the Fair
Access Rule that is currently applied to ATSs that trade NMS stocks, equity securities that are
not NMS stocks and for which transactions are reported to an SRO, municipal securities, and
corporate debt securities.
Fifth, the Commission is proposing a three percent threshold to apply the Fair Access
Rule for Government Securities ATSs that trade U.S. Treasury Securities. The Commission
received several comments on the threshold proposed in the 2020 Proposal, which expressed
differing opinions. One commenter stated that it would support a threshold of three percent of
daily market volume, observing that such a threshold would apply the Fair Access Rule to only
four ATSs for U.S. Treasury Securities and one for Agency Securities, and stating that these

One commenter stated that Commission should not, for example, distinguish between onthe-run and off-the-run Treasuries in applying the Fair Access Rule because a broader
measure of market significance is preferable in order to provide for a more stable
application of the Fair Access Rule. See Tradeweb Letter at 3.
325 However, if, for example, during the six month period from January to June, the
Government Securities ATS met the threshold for U.S. Treasury Securities only during
January and April and met the threshold for Agency Securities only during February and
May, the Government Securities ATS would not be subject to the Fair Access Rule in
July because the ATS would not have met the threshold for either type of security during
at least four of the preceding six months in either U.S. Treasury Securities or Agency
Securities.
100
ATSs are “leading exchanges” whose customers deserve fair access.326 On the other hand, one
commenter stated that an ATS should be subject to the Fair Access Rule only if it is a
“significant” source of liquidity and that it believed that most market participants view 10
percent of the par value traded in the asset class as the market share threshold where an ATS’s
liquidity is significant.327 Another commenter supported the previously-proposed five percent
thresholds.328
While public comment on what constitutes a significant market center for U.S. Treasury
Securities is split, the Commission believes that a three percent average weekly trading volume
threshold would encompass the significant markets for and advance the policy goals of the Fair
Access Rule. The Commission believes that the policy goals behind the Fair Access Rule are of
particular importance in the U.S. Treasury Securities market. Market participants must have
reasonable access to significant sources of liquidity in the secondary markets for U.S. Treasury
Securities because, among other things, U.S. Treasury Securities play a vital and irreplaceable
role in both the U.S. and global economies. In addition, ATSs that operate in the secondary
interdealer markets for on-the-run U.S. Treasury Securities have become a significant source of
trading interest for government securities. Also, under this proposal, RFQ systems will now be
subject to Regulation ATS. Given that RFQ systems make up over half of secondary trading in
the U.S. Treasury market,
329 the Fair Access Rule’s policy goals would be advanced by requiring
RFQs that facilitate a significant percentage of U.S. Treasury trading to provide fair access to

326 See AFREF Letter at 3.
327 See Bloomberg Letter at 6.
328 See SIFMA Letter at 5.
329 See Treasury Market Practices Group (TMPG), White Paper on Clearing and Settlement
in the Secondary Market for U.S. Treasury Securities (July 2019), available at
https://www.newyorkfed.org/medialibrary/Microsites/tmpg/files/CS_FinalPaper_071119.
pdf.
101
market participants. Additionally, when compared to the application of the Fair Access Rule to
NMS Stock ATSs, denying fair access to services of an ATS for U.S. Treasury Securities under
this proposal would be particularly impactful. The Fair Access Rule would be applied
categorically for government securities rather than on a security-by-security basis like in the
NMS equities market. Thus, a market participant being denied access to a significant U.S.
Treasury Securities ATS could be denied access to the system’s entire portfolio of U.S. Treasury
Securities operations.
Based on the current market, a three percent volume threshold would help ensure
appropriate access for market participants, particularly retail and other non-broker-dealer
investors who rely on liquidity in the government securities markets. Specifically, under the
proposed three percent threshold, based on volume currently required to be reported to TRACE,
the Commission estimates that seven Legacy Government Securities ATSs that trade U.S.
Treasury Securities (including four Legacy Government Securities ATSs with greater than three
percent market share and three affiliated ATSs with which their volume would be aggregated
under the proposed changes to the Fair Access Rule)330 would be subject to the Fair Access
Rule.331 Under the previously proposed five percent threshold, an estimated three ATSs trading
U.S. Treasury Securities (including two Legacy Government Securities ATSs with greater than

330 See infra Section V.A. See also infra Table VIII.1. For purposes of estimating the
number of unique affiliated ATSs that would meet the proposed three percent threshold,
the data in Table VIII.1 (stating a total of nine “grouped-affiliated ATSs” would be
affected) has been adjusted based on the Commission’s knowledge of current ATS
operations.
331 Based on Coalition Greenwich’s Greenwich MarketView data from April 2021 through
September 2021, approximately two currently operating Communication Protocol
Systems would be subject to the Fair Access Rule using a three percent threshold in U.S.
Treasury Securities. This would remain unchanged if the Commission used the
previously-proposed five percent threshold.
102
five percent market share and one affiliated ATS) would be subject to the Fair Access Rule.332
As such, a three percent threshold would result in market participants having fair access to an
estimated nearly eight percent more of the U.S. Treasury Securities market than they would
under a five percent threshold, based on volume currently reported to TRACE.
333
Furthermore, applying the Fair Access Rule to ATSs that meet a three percent threshold
in U.S. Treasury Securities would result in the Fair Access Rule applying to Legacy Government
Securities ATSs transacting in approximately 32 percent of market volume currently reported to
FINRA in U.S. Treasury Securities. ATSs that trade U.S. Treasury Securities that would be
subject to the Fair Access Rule under the proposed three percent threshold would comprise
approximately 94 percent of U.S. Treasury Securities volume traded on ATSs.334 Accordingly,
the Commission believes that the three percent threshold would provide investors with access to
markets that are important venues for trading in U.S. Treasury Securities.
Sixth, the five percent threshold set forth in the 2020 Proposal for Agency Securities is
being re-proposed unchanged. Because the U.S. Treasury Securities market is one of the deepest
and most liquid in the world, and because of the vital role that U.S. Treasury Securities play in
the U.S. and global economies, it is particularly important to ensure that investors have access to
ATSs with significant volume in U.S. Treasury Securities. The Agency Securities market,
however, does not share the unique qualities of the U.S. Treasury Securities market, and
accordingly, the Commission is re-proposing for Agency Securities a five percent threshold that

332 See infra Table VIII.1. For purposes of estimating the number of unique affiliated ATSs
that would meet a five percent threshold, the data in Table VIII.1 (stating a total of five
“grouped-affiliated ATSs” would be affected) has been adjusted based on the
Commission’s knowledge of current ATS operations.
333 See id.
334 Data is based on the regulatory version of TRACE for U.S. Treasury Securities from
April 1, 2021 through September 30, 2021.
103
is consistent with the current volume threshold applicable to corporate bonds and municipal
securities.335 Furthermore, based on volume currently reported to TRACE, the estimated one
Legacy Government Securities ATS that would exceed the proposed five percent threshold for
Agency Securities accounts for nearly 12 percent of volume reported in TRACE in Agency
Securities.
336
The Commission is proposing a compliance period for Communication Protocol Systems,
which seek to operate as ATSs, and Legacy Government Securities ATSs that become subject to
the Fair Access Rule. Under the proposal, a Communication Protocol System or a Legacy
Government Securities ATS that becomes subject to the Fair Access Rule would be required to
comply with the Fair Access Rule one month from the date that the Communication Protocol
System or the Legacy Government Securities ATS initially triggers any of the fair access
thresholds.337 The Commission believes that it is appropriate to provide the one-month
compliance period to allow the Communication Protocol System or the Legacy Government
Securities ATS to establish and apply reasonable written standards for granting, limiting, and
denying access to the ATS services, as proposed, and, for those that would be NMS Stock ATSs
and Government Securities ATSs, to prepare responses to Item 24 of Form ATS-N.338 The
additional compliance period is designed to provide the Communication Protocol Systems and
the Legacy Government Securities ATSs sufficient time to transition into the new ATS

335 See Rule 301(b)(5)(i)(A)-(D).
336 This ATS would also meet the proposed threshold for trading in U.S. Treasury Securities.
337 See proposed Rule 301(b)(5)(i)(G). The rule text uses the term “Newly Designated ATS”
to refer to a Communication Protocol System. See supra note 134. Under this proposal,
an ATS that triggers the fair access threshold for a security (for NMS stocks or equity
securities that are not NMS stocks) or a category of security (for municipal securities,
corporate debt securities, U.S. Treasury Securities, or Agency Securities) would not be
able to avail itself to the one-month compliance period for triggering the fair access
threshold for another security or another category of securities.
338 See infra Section V.A.3.
104
regulatory regime and prevent any disruptions to the operation of these systems and their
participants.
Request for Comment
30. Should any other type of government securities be included as a category of securities
under Rule 301(b)(5)? Should the Commission apply Rule 301(b)(5) to all Government
Securities ATSs? What would be the costs and benefits associated with such a
requirement?
31. Should the proposed three percent fair access threshold for U.S. Treasury Securities be
applied to all types of U.S. Treasury Securities or to subset categories of U.S. Treasury
Securities? For example, should the three percent fair access threshold be applied to
transaction volume in only on-the-run U.S. Treasury Securities? Should the five percent
fair access threshold be applied to all Agency Securities or to subset categories? If so,
why or why not?
32. Should the proposed three percent fair access threshold for U.S. Treasury Securities be
set higher or lower than three percent? Should the proposed five percent fair access
threshold for Agency Securities be set higher or lower than five percent? If so, what
should the percentage thresholds be? Should there be no thresholds so that the Fair
Access Rule would apply to all Government Securities ATSs that trade U.S. Treasury
Securities or Agency Securities regardless of volume transacted on the ATS? Please
support your views. Are the five percent and three percent thresholds appropriate
thresholds to capture ATSs that are significant markets for trading in U.S. Treasury
Securities and Agency Securities, respectively? Would the proposed thresholds capture
ATSs that are not significant markets for U.S. Treasury Securities and Agency
Securities? If there should be a percent threshold for a category finer than all U.S.
105
Treasury Securities, for example on-the-run U.S. Treasury Securities or off-the-run U.S.
Treasury Securities, what should that threshold should be?
33. Should the fair access threshold be based on average weekly dollar volume traded in the
United States for U.S. Treasury Securities and daily dollar volume traded in the United
States for Agency Securities?
34. Would the proposed four out of six month period be an appropriate period to measure the
volume thresholds for U.S. Treasury Securities and Agency Securities? With respect to
calculating the appropriate thresholds, would Government Securities ATSs have available
appropriate data with which to determine whether the proposed thresholds have been
met? Would ATSs that trade U.S. Treasury Securities be able to readily calculate
whether they meet the volume thresholds in at least four out of the preceding six months,
given that U.S. Treasury Securities are disseminated on a weekly, rather than daily basis?
Would it be appropriate for the Commission to change the proposed four out of six month
period to a time period measured in weeks (e.g., at least 16 out of the preceding 24
weeks) with respect to U.S. Treasury Securities? What effect would any such change
have on the likelihood that ATSs trading U.S. Treasury Securities would meet the volume
thresholds?
35. If the average weekly dollar volumes were to include transactions for U.S Treasury
Securities by non-FINRA members, which currently are not reported to, or collected by,
the SRO that makes public average weekly dollar volume statistics, should the fair access
threshold change? If so, what should be the appropriate threshold?
36. Would it be appropriate to use five percent of average daily dollar volume traded in the
United States as a fair access threshold for Agency Securities? Do ATSs that trade
Agency Securities currently subscribe to TRACE and, therefore, receive TRACE trade
106
reports for Agency Securities? If not, what percentage of these ATSs do not currently
subscribe to TRACE?
37. Should the requirements under the Fair Access Rule be amended specifically for
Government Securities ATS? If so, how?
38. Are there any unique challenges for ATSs that would be required to comply with the
requirements under the Fair Access Rule for the first time? If so, please explain.
39. Do commenters believe that it is appropriate to provide to Communication Protocol
Systems and Legacy Government Securities ATSs a one-month compliance period to
comply with the Fair Access Rule? Should the proposed compliance period be longer or
shorter? Should the eligibility for the compliance period be expanded to ATSs that are
currently operating or limited in any way? Please explain.
C. Application of Regulation SCI to Government Securities ATS
The Commission is re-proposing to amend Regulation SCI to expand the definition of
“SCI alternative trading system” to include Government Securities ATSs that meet a specified
volume threshold. A Government Securities ATS that meets the proposed amended definition of
“SCI alternative trading system” would fall within the definition of “SCI entity” and, as a result,
would be subject to the requirements of Regulation SCI.
Because the proposed amendments to Exchange Act Rule 3b-16(a) would cause
Communication Protocol Systems to fall within the definition of “exchange,”339 Communication
Protocol Systems that transact in U.S. Treasuries or Agency Securities that choose to register as
a broker-dealer and comply with Regulation ATS would, if they meet the proposed volume
threshold, also meet the proposed amended definition of “SCI alternative trading system” and
become subject to the requirements of Regulation SCI. The proposed amendments to Exchange

339 See supra Section II.
107
Rule 3b-16(a) likewise would cause Communication Protocol Systems that transact in NMS
stocks and equity securities that are not NMS stocks to fall within the current definition of SCI
alternative trading system if they reached the current volume thresholds within the definition,
and become subject to the requirements of Regulation SCI.340 As discussed in detail below, the
Commission believes that extending the requirements of Regulation SCI to Government
Securities ATSs that trade a significant volume in U.S. Treasury Securities or Agency Securities
would help to address any technological vulnerabilities, and improve the Commission’s
oversight, of the core technology of key entities in the markets for government securities.
The Commission adopted Regulation SCI in November 2014 to strengthen the
technology infrastructure of the U.S. securities markets.341 As discussed in the Regulation SCI
Adopting Release, a number of factors contributed to the Commission’s proposal and adoption of
Regulation SCI. These factors included: the evolution of the markets becoming significantly
more dependent upon sophisticated, complex, and interconnected technology; the successes and
limitations of the Automation Review Policy (“ARP”) Inspection Program; a significant number

340 A Communication Protocol System that chooses to register as a national securities
exchange would also be subject to Regulation SCI under the definition of “SCI entity”
which includes SROs such as national securities exchanges. As discussed above,
Communication Protocol Systems, such as RFQ systems, that use trading interest and
protocols to bring together buyers and sellers perform an exchange market place function
similar to systems that offer the use of orders and trading facilities. These systems allow
market participants to use non-firm trading interest to seek and negotiate a trade.
Accordingly, the Commission preliminarily believes that such systems, whether they are
systems of a registered national securities exchange or an ATS that is an SCI entity,
would be covered by the definition of “SCI systems” under Regulation SCI because they
directly support trading. See 17 CFR 242.1000 and infra note 348 and accompanying
text. As detailed further below, the Commission is requesting comment on whether
Communication Protocol Systems of SCI entities would meet the definition of “SCI
systems” under Regulation SCI.
341 See Regulation SCI Adopting Release, supra note 3, at 72252-56 for a discussion of the
background of Regulation SCI.
108
of, and lessons learned from, systems issues at exchanges and other trading venues;342 and
increased concerns over the potential for “single points of failure” in the securities markets.343
Regulation SCI is designed to strengthen the infrastructure of the U.S. securities markets, reduce
the occurrence of systems issues in those markets, improve their resiliency when technological
issues arise, and implement an updated and formalized regulatory framework, thereby helping to
ensure more effective Commission oversight of such systems.344
The key market participants that are currently subject to Regulation SCI are called “SCI
entities” and include certain SROs (including stock and options exchanges, registered clearing
agencies, FINRA and the MSRB) (“SCI SROs”), alternative trading systems that trade NMS and
non-NMS stocks exceeding specified volume thresholds (“SCI ATSs”), the exclusive SIPs (“plan
processors”), certain exempt clearing agencies, and SCI competing consolidators.
345 ATSs
trading NMS or non-NMS stocks that are currently subject to Regulation SCI are heavily reliant
on trading technology and represent a significant pool of liquidity for NMS and non-NMS
stocks. As discussed in further detail below, Regulation SCI requires these SCI entities to,
among other things, establish, maintain, and enforce written policies and procedures reasonably
designed to ensure that their key automated systems have levels of capacity, integrity, resiliency,
availability, and security adequate to maintain their operational capability and promote the
maintenance of fair and orderly markets, and that such systems operate in accordance with the
Exchange Act and the rules and regulations thereunder and the entities’ rules and governing
documents, as applicable.346 Broadly speaking, Regulation SCI also requires SCI entities to take

342 See id. at 72253-56.
343 See id. at 72277-79.
344 Id. at 72253, 72256.
345 See 17 CFR 242.1000.
346 See 17 CFR 242.1001; infra notes 397-398.
109
appropriate corrective action when systems issues occur, provide certain notifications and reports
to the Commission regarding systems problems and systems changes, inform members and
participants about systems issues, conduct business continuity and disaster recovery testing,
conduct annual reviews of their automated systems, including penetration testing, and make and
keep certain books and records.347
Regulation SCI applies primarily to the systems of SCI entities, whether operated by SCI
entities or on their behalf, that directly support any one of six key securities market functions –
trading, clearance and settlement, order routing, market data, market regulation, and market
surveillance (“SCI systems”).348 With respect to security, Regulation SCI also applies to
systems that, if breached, would be reasonably likely to pose a security threat to SCI systems
(“indirect SCI systems”).349 In addition, certain systems whose functions are critical to the
operation of the markets, including those that represent single points of failure (defined as
“critical SCI systems”), are subject to certain heightened requirements.350
When the Commission adopted Regulation SCI, the Commission departed from its
proposal to apply Regulation SCI to fixed income ATSs that trade municipal and corporate

347 See 17 CFR 242.1002-1007; infra notes 400-411.
348 See 17 CFR 242.1000.
349 Id.
350 Id. See also Regulation SCI Adopting Release, supra note 3, at 72277. Paragraph (1) of
the definition of “critical SCI systems” in Rule 1000 of Regulation SCI specifically
enumerates certain systems to be within its scope, including those that directly support
functionality relating to: clearance and settlement systems of clearing agencies;
openings, reopenings, and closings on the primary listing market; trading halts; initial
public offerings; the provision of consolidated market data; or exclusively-listed
securities. The second prong of the definition provides a broader catch-all for systems
that “[p]rovide functionality to the securities markets for which the availability of
alternatives is significantly limited or nonexistent and without which there would be a
material impact on fair and orderly markets.” 17 CFR 242.1000 (definition of “critical
SCI system”).
110
debt.351 Explaining this departure, the Commission differentiated ATSs trading municipal and
corporate debt securities from those trading equity securities, stating generally that fixed income
markets rely much less on automation and electronic trading than markets that trade NMS stocks
or non-NMS stocks.352 The Commission also stated that the municipal and corporate debt
markets tend to be less liquid than the equity markets, with slower execution times and less
complex routing strategies.353 At the same time, the Commission stated that it would “monitor
and evaluate the implementation of Regulation SCI, the risks posed by the systems of other
market participants, and the continued evolution of the securities markets, such that it may
consider, in the future, extending the types of requirements in Regulation SCI to additional
categories of market participants.”354
In the 2020 Proposal, where the Commission was addressing Government Securities
ATSs specifically, the Commission stated that, in light of the increasing automation of the
government securities market and the operational similarities between many Government
Securities ATSs and NMS Stock ATSs, it believed that it was appropriate to propose to apply the
requirements of Regulation SCI to Government Securities ATSs that meet certain volume
thresholds, and noted again that while technological developments provide many benefits to the
U.S. securities markets, they also have increased the risk of operational problems that have the
potential to cause a widespread impact on the securities market and its participants.355
Therefore, the Commission stated in the 2020 Proposal that application of Regulation SCI to

351 See Regulation SCI Proposing Release, Securities Exchange Act Release No. 69077
(Mar. 8, 2013), 78 FR 18084, 18093-95 (Mar. 25, 2013).
352 See Regulation SCI Adopting Release, supra note 3, at 72270.
353 See id.
354 See id.
355 See 2020 Proposal, supra note 4, at 87152. See also supra Section II.B; Regulation SCI
Adopting Release, supra note 3, at 72253.
111
Government Securities ATSs that trade a significant volume of U.S. Treasury Securities or
Agency Securities would further help to address those technological vulnerabilities, and improve
the Commission’s oversight, of the core technology used by key U.S. securities markets
participants.356
A number of commenters on the 2020 Proposal supported applying the requirements of
Regulation SCI to Government Securities ATSs above a specified volume threshold.357 These
commenters stated that such requirements could promote the integrity and resiliency of the key
automated systems of Government Securities ATSs and ensure Commission oversight.358 One
commenter added that extending Regulation SCI to Government Securities ATSs could reduce
the potential for systems issues, as well as reduce the frequency, severity, and duration of any
systems issues that may occur.359 As support for the 2020 Proposal, some commenters cited the
increased automation in the government securities markets and/or operational similarities with
NMS stock ATSs,360 with one commenter stating that the distinctions that the Commission made
between stock market ATSs and fixed income ATSs in its adoption of Regulation SCI have not

356 See 2020 Proposal, supra note 4, at 87152.
357 See SIFMA Letter at 5; MFA Letter at 5; AFREF Letter at 2, 4; Healthy Markets Letter at
9-11; and ICE Bonds Letter II at 5 (stating that it would support application of Regulation
SCI to fixed income ATSs if the threshold was set at the 20% volume threshold test
currently used under Rule 301(b)(6)). Commenters on the 2020 Proposal that generally
supported the application of Regulation SCI expressed varying views as to the
appropriate threshold level that the Commission should adopt. See discussion infra
regarding comments pertaining to threshold levels.
358 See SIFMA Letter at 5; MFA Letter at 5; AFREF Letter at 2, 4; and Healthy Markets
Letter at 10-11.
359 See MFA Letter at n.13.
360 See MFA Letter at 5; and Healthy Markets Letter at 9.
112
“stood up well against the rapid evolution of the markets.”361 One commenter asserted that the
government securities markets are more systemically significant than the equity markets, to
which Regulation SCI already applies.362
Other commenters on the 2020 Proposal opposed requiring Government Securities ATSs
above a volume threshold to comply with Regulation SCI.363 These commenters advocated for
applying the narrower technology and resiliency requirements of Rule 301(b)(6), rather than
Regulation SCI.364 Some of these commenters expressed concerns regarding the costs and
burdens of complying with Regulation SCI.365 One commenter distinguished the equities
markets from the market for government securities, asserting that the government securities
markets do not have the same type of linkages among trading venues that increase the risk of a
systems issue in one market spreading to another and causing significant market impact.366 As
such, this commenter argued that applying Regulation SCI would only increase costs without
materially increasing the integrity or security of the government securities markets. Another
commenter, while focusing its comments on the corporate and municipal bond markets, argued
that, when the Commission adopted Regulation SCI, it did not include fixed-income ATSs

361 See Healthy Markets Letter at 10. See also infra note 367 and accompanying text
(discussing MarketAxess’s comment with respect to stock market ATSs and fixed
income ATSs).
362 See AFREF Letter at 2.
363 See Tradeweb Letter at 3, 11; BrokerTec Letter at 5-9; and MarketAxess Letter at 11.
The Commission notes that MarketAxess focused its comments specifically on corporate
and municipal bonds, rather than government securities, but we have included such
comments here for completeness.
364 See Tradeweb Letter at 11; BrokerTec Letter at 5-9; and MarketAxess Letter at 11.
365 See Tradeweb Letter at 3, 11; and BrokerTec Letter at 8-9.
366 See Tradeweb Letter at 3, 11.
113
within the scope of the regulation out of a concern that it could discourage greater automation in
the fixed-income markets and that this concern still exists today.367
Acknowledging comment letters on the 2020 Proposal, the Commission continues to
believe that the inclusion of Government Securities ATSs meeting specified volume thresholds
in Regulation SCI would be appropriate because such Government Securities ATSs (inclusive of
Communication Protocol Systems, as proposed), are heavily reliant on technology and represent
significant pools of liquidity, as the Commission has determined to be the case for current SCI
ATSs.368 The Commission believes that, particularly in light of the evolution of the government
securities markets, it is important to impose the requirements of Regulation SCI to help ensure
that the technology systems of such Government Securities ATSs are reliable and resilient.369
The focus of the Commission’s discussion in the Regulation SCI Adopting Release
regarding the fixed income markets was on the corporate and municipal bond markets, not the
government securities markets.370 As discussed in detail below, given the evolution of the

367 See MarketAxess Letter at 11.
368 Some commenters on the 2020 Proposal also provided views on whether the Commission
should extend application of Regulation SCI to additional entities beyond Government
Securities ATSs. See, e.g., Healthy Markets Letter at 9 (stating that the Commission
should expand the scope of Regulation SCI to include not just government securities
ATSs, but other essential market participants in equities, futures, and fixed income
markets); and SIFMA Letter at 5 (arguing that the Commission should not extend
Regulation SCI to broker-dealers more generally at this time). As the Commission stated
in the Regulation SCI Adopting Release, the Commission will continue to monitor and
evaluate the risks posed by the systems of other market participants and the continued
evolution of the securities markets to determine whether it would be appropriate to
extend the requirements of Regulation SCI to additional categories of entities in the
future. See Regulation SCI Adopting Release, supra note 3, at 72259.
369 As discussed in detail above and as commenters have stated, the structure of the U.S.
Treasury market has evolved in recent years and electronic trading has become an
increasingly important feature of the interdealer market for U.S. Treasury Securities. See
supra Section II.B and notes 62-63, 187 and accompanying text.
370 See Regulation SCI Adopting Release, supra note 3, at 72270.
114
government securities markets, the Commission now believes that there are Government
Securities ATSs that operate with similar complexity as SCI ATSs that are currently subject to
Regulation SCI, and that Government Securities ATSs with significant trading volume play an
important role in the government securities markets and face similar technological vulnerabilities
as existing SCI entities. Several commenters on the 2020 Proposal stated that371 the application
of Regulation SCI would help the Commission improve its oversight of the market for
government securities, thereby continuing its efforts to address technological vulnerabilities of
the core technology systems of key U.S. securities markets entities.
The Commission explained in the Regulation SCI Adopting Release that it adopted
Regulation SCI to expand upon, update, and modernize the requirements of Rule 301(b)(6) for
those ATSs trading NMS stocks and non-NMS stocks that it had identified as playing a
significant role in the securities markets.372 As stated above, because Government Securities
ATSs with significant trading volume play an important role in the government securities
markets and present similar risks to the market as SCI ATSs, the re-proposal of the broader set of
requirements and safeguards of Regulation SCI is more appropriate for such entities than
proposing to amend the older and more limited requirements of Rule 301(b)(6).373

371 See generally SIFMA Letter at 5, MFA Letter at 5, and AFREF Letter at 2.
372 See Regulation SCI Adopting Release, supra note 3, at 72264.
373 See 17 CFR 242.301(b)(6). At the same time, as specified below, the Commission
continues to request comment on whether Government Securities ATSs that meet the
proposed volume thresholds for SCI ATSs should be governed by Rule 301(b)(6) instead
of being defined as SCI entities. The requirements of Rule 301(b)(6) are less rigorous
than the requirements of Regulation SCI. Among other things, Rule 301(b)(6) requires
an ATS to notify the Commission staff of material systems outages and significant
systems changes and that the ATS establish adequate contingency and disaster recovery
plans. See id. Regulation SCI expanded upon these requirements, by, for example,
expanding the requirements to a broader set of systems, imposing new requirements for
information dissemination regarding SCI events, and requiring Commission notification
for additional types of events, among others. Rule 301(b)(6) currently applies to an ATS
that trades only municipal securities or corporate debt securities with 20 percent or more
115
In discussing the costs and burdens of Regulation SCI, one commenter on the 2020
Proposal characterized the requirements of Regulation SCI as being prescriptive and “one size
fits all.”374 This commenter argued that many Government Securities ATSs already align with
industry standards that are more flexible and achieve many of the same goals of Regulation SCI
without additional compliance costs. Regulation SCI specifically incorporates, and provides that
SCI entities can look to, industry standards to comply with the policies and procedures
requirement under Regulation SCI.375 As the Commission emphasized at the time of adoption,
Regulation SCI is not intended to be a “one-size-fits-all” regulation, but rather takes a risk-based
approach pursuant to which an SCI entity’s policies and procedures could be tailored to a
particular system’s criticality and risk, and includes other rules and definitions that similarly
incorporated risk-based considerations.376
Accordingly, the Commission is re-proposing to expand the definition of “SCI ATSs” to
include Government Securities ATSs that meet certain volume thresholds with respect to U.S.
Treasury Securities and/or Agency Securities.
377 Specifically, the definition of “SCI ATS”
would be revised to include those ATSs which, during at least four of the preceding six calendar

of the average daily volume traded in the United States during at least four of the
preceding six calendar months. Currently, there are no ATSs that are subject to
requirements of Rule 301(b)(6) of Regulation ATS.
374 See BrokerTec Letter at 6.
375 Specifically, 17 CFR 242.1001(a)(4) (Rule 1001(a)(4)) provides that the policies and
procedures required under Rule 1001(a) shall be deemed to be reasonably designed if
they are consistent with current SCI industry standards. See Rule 1001(a)(4) of
Regulation SCI. “SCI industry standards” are those standards comprising information
technology practices that are widely available to information technology professionals in
the financial sector and issued by an authoritative body that is a U.S. governmental entity
or agency, association of U.S. governmental entities or agencies, or widely recognized
organization.
376 See Regulation SCI Adopting Release, supra note 3, at 72259-60, 72290-91.
377 See paragraphs (3) and (4) of the definition of “SCI ATS” under Rule 1000 of Regulation
SCI.
116
months, had, with respect to U.S. Treasury Securities, five percent or more of the average
weekly dollar volume traded in the United States as provided by the SRO to which such
transactions are reported; or had, with respect to Agency Securities, five percent or more of the
average daily dollar volume traded in the United States as provided by the SRO to which such
transactions are reported.
Several commenters on the 2020 Proposal discussed the specific proposed volume
thresholds for Government Securities ATSs to become subject to Regulation SCI. One
commenter stated that the five percent threshold level represents a reasonable level for the
systemic integrity issues targeted by Regulation SCI,378 while other commenters expressed
support for the application of Regulation SCI as proposed without specifically commenting on
the threshold level.
Other commenters offered alternative standards for determining which Government
Securities ATSs should be included within the scope of Regulation SCI. For example, one
commenter recommended that the Commission adopt a lower (i.e., more stringent) threshold
level and incorporate a threshold based on a dollar amount.379
Other commenters on the 2020 Proposal suggested adoption of a higher threshold level
for the application of Regulation SCI to Government Securities ATSs. For example, one

378 See AFREF Letter at 2 and 4.
379 Specifically, this commenter stated that Regulation SCI should apply to any family of
related trading venues for government or agency securities with combined notional
average daily values over the lesser of one percent of the overall market share on an
appropriate dollar threshold, e.g., $25 billion. See Healthy Markets Letter at 10-11. In
contrast, two commenters advocated for the application of Rule 301(b)(6) rather than
Regulation SCI to Government Securities ATSs, but stated that the current 20 percent
threshold in Rule 301(b)(6) is too high. See MarketAxess Letter at 10 (noting that 20
percent is not an appropriate threshold to capture ATSs with a significant percentage of
trading volume in corporate or municipal debt); and BrokerTec Letter at 8
(recommending that Rule 301(b)(6) should apply to all Government Trading Securities
regardless of trading volume).
117
commenter stated that it would support the application of Regulation SCI instead of Rule
301(b)(6) to fixed income ATSs if the Commission adopted the 20 percent volume threshold test
currently used under Rule 301(b)(6).380 One commenter who generally opposed the 2020
Proposal also urged the Commission to adopt a higher threshold if it, in fact, extended
application of Regulation SCI to Government Securities ATSs.381 Another commenter suggested
that application of Regulation SCI should depend on whether the ATS itself is a “significant”
source of liquidity, recommending that this determination could, for example, be based on
whether the ATS’s par value traded in the asset class, for four months over the prior six months,
averaged at least 10 percent of par value traded in the asset class.382
The Commission is re-proposing the five percent thresholds for Government Securities
ATSs, consistent with the 2020 Proposal. Although some commenters provided suggestions for
different thresholds or recommended applying Rule 301(b)(6) instead, the Commission believes
that the proposed five percent thresholds for applying Regulation SCI to Government Securities
ATSs (inclusive of Communication Protocol Systems, as now proposed) would be appropriate
measures to identify those ATSs that have the potential to significantly impact investors and the
market should a systems issue occur and thus warrant the protections and requirements of
Regulation SCI.383 At the same time, as detailed further below, the Commission is requesting

380 See ICE Bonds Letter II at 5.
381 See Tradeweb Letter at 3, 11. This commenter stated that the threshold should be raised
to a “more material percentage” such as 25 percent.
382 See Bloomberg Letter at 5.
383 Regulation SCI would not apply to Government Securities ATSs that trade repos,
including repos on U.S. Treasury Securities and Agency Securities. The Commission
notes FINRA does not require ATSs to report transactions for repos. See supra note 313.
Based on information available to the Commission, the Commission does not believe that
ATSs today capture a significant market share for trading repos nor do they rely on the
same use of technology as ATSs that trade U.S. Treasury Securities or Agency Securities,
but below requests comment on whether Government Securities ATSs that trade repos,
118
additional comment on whether these proposed volume thresholds should be set higher or lower
for ATSs trading government securities.
The Commission has analyzed the number of entities it believes are likely to be covered
by the thresholds it is proposing and believes that, currently, approximately two Legacy
Government Securities ATSs trading U.S. Treasury Securities would be subject to Regulation
SCI under the five percent volume thresholds, one of which would also meet the volume
thresholds for trading Agency Securities.
384 In addition, the Commission believes that
approximately two currently operating Communication Protocol Systems would likely be subject
to Regulation SCI under the proposed five percent threshold in U.S. Treasury Securities.
The Commission believes that the proposed volume thresholds to apply Regulation SCI
to a Government Securities ATS that trades U.S. Treasury Securities and Agency Securities are
reasonable compared to volume thresholds that would subject an ATS to Rule 301(b)(6) under
Regulation ATS for the ATS’s trading of corporate bonds and municipal securities. Currently,
an ATS that trades corporate bonds or municipal securities is subject to Rule 301(b)(6) if its
trading volume reaches 20 percent or more of the average daily volume traded in the United
States for either corporate bonds or municipal securities. As discussed in detail above, when the

including repos on U.S. Treasury Securities and Agency Securities should be subject to
Regulation SCI.
384 See supra Section II.D and infra Section X.B.1a. As discussed above with regard to the
Fair Access Rule, the ATS with the largest market volume in U.S. Treasury Securities
has approximately 14 percent of market volume, while the second largest has
approximately six percent of market share, and the third and fourth largest both have a
little less than four percent market share. The one Legacy Government Securities ATS
that would also exceed the threshold for Agency Securities accounts for roughly 11
percent of volume in Agency Securities. See infra Table VIII.1. If the proposed volume
thresholds were ten percent, only one Legacy Government Securities ATS would be
subject to Regulation SCI, meeting the threshold levels for both U.S. Treasury Securities
and Agency Securities. However, the Commission believes that there would still be
approximately two currently operating Communication Protocol Systems subject to
Regulation SCI using a ten percent threshold in U.S. Treasury Securities. See id.
119
Commission adopted Regulation SCI, it decided not to apply Regulation SCI and its lower
volume thresholds to the fixed income markets, concluding that a systems issue in fixed income
markets would not have had as significant or widespread an impact as in the equities market.385
Among other things, the Commission reasoned that the fixed income markets at the time relied
much less on electronic trading than the equities markets, and that the municipal securities and
corporate bond fixed income markets tended to be less liquid than the equity markets, with
slower execution times and less complex routing strategies.386 As explained above, however,
ATSs for government securities now operate with complexity similar to that of markets that trade
NMS stocks in terms of use of technology and speed of trading, the use of limit order books,
order types, algorithms, connectivity, data feeds, and the active participation of PTFs, and
Communication Protocol Systems are increasingly used as electronic means to bring together
buyers and sellers using non-firm trading interest for government securities, being particularly
prevalent in the dealer-to-customer market for off-the-run U.S. Treasury securities, Agency
Securities, and repos.387 Given the critical role government securities play in the U.S. and global
economies,
388 the Commission believes that, due to their increased reliance on electronic trading
and the important role played by Government Securities ATSs in today’s markets, an ATS
whose government securities volume falls between five percent and 20 percent of trading volume
could significantly impact investors and the market should a systems issue occur. By proposing

385 See Regulation SCI Adopting Release, supra note 3, at 72270.
386 See id.
387 See supra notes 187-190 and accompanying text.
388 See supra notes 182-186 and accompanying text. One commenter, while arguing that
Government Securities ATSs should be subject to Rule 301(b)(6) in lieu of expanding
Regulation SCI, in fact similarly emphasized the fundamental importance of the U.S.
Treasury market and the need to take appropriate steps to enhance the resilience of the
market, arguing that all Government Securities ATSs should be subject to technology and
resiliency requirements regardless of volume. See BrokerTec Letter at 8.
120
to apply Regulation SCI to Government Securities ATSs with a threshold of five percent, the
Commission seeks to impose the protections of Regulation SCI to these ATSs because of their
importance and potential technological risks to the U.S. securities markets.389
While the Commission acknowledges that, as one commenter on the 2020 Proposal
suggested,390 the government securities markets may not have the same type of linkages between
trading venues as exists in the equities markets today, as described above, Government Securities
ATSs with significant trading volume have the potential to significantly impact investors, the
overall market, and the trading of individual securities should an SCI event occur, similar to SCI
ATSs currently subject to Regulation SCI. In addition, a system outage at a significant
Government Securities ATS could disrupt trading at another significant Government Securities
ATS even if these Government Securities ATSs are not connected. For example, if a significant
Government Securities ATS is experiencing a system outage, there could be a sudden surge in
message traffic (e.g., quoting activities) and trading at another significant Government Securities
ATS, which could exceed the system capacity of such Government Securities ATS and
potentially result in a systems issue and/or a disruption of trading on that ATS as well. Further,
the Commission did not base its determination regarding which entities played a significant role
in the market and should be included within the scope of the regulation on the linkages that exist
in the equities markets. In adopting Regulation SCI, the Commission acknowledged that a
temporary outage at an ATS might not lead to a widespread systemic disruption and stated that
“Regulation SCI is not designed to solely address systems issues that cause widespread systemic

389 The Commission also recognizes that ATSs for corporate bonds and municipal securities
are becoming increasingly electronic and as part of the 2020 Proposal, the Commission
requested comment on, among other things, whether the 20 percent volume threshold
under Rule 301(b)(6) of Regulation ATS should be amended to capture ATSs that might
be critical markets for those securities.
390 See Tradeweb Letter at 3, 11.
121
disruption, but also to address more limited systems malfunctions that can harm market
participants.”391 The Commission believes that, without appropriate safeguards in place for
these Government Securities ATSs, technological vulnerabilities could lead to the potential for
failures, disruptions, delays, and intrusions, which could place government securities market
participants at risk and interfere with the maintenance of fair and orderly markets.
The Commission believes that the proposed volume thresholds to apply Regulation SCI
to a Government Securities ATS that trades U.S. Treasury Securities and Agency Securities are
reasonable as compared to the volume thresholds for applying Regulation SCI to ATSs that trade
NMS stocks and ATSs that trade equities that are not NMS stocks. First, an ATS that trades
NMS stocks is subject to Regulation SCI if its trading volume reaches: (i) five percent or more
in any single NMS stock and one-quarter percent or more in all NMS stocks of the average daily
dollar volume reported by applicable transaction reporting plans; or (ii) one percent or more in
all NMS stocks of the average daily dollar volume reported by applicable transaction reporting
plans. With respect to non-NMS equity securities, an ATS is subject to Regulation SCI if its
trading volume is five percent or more of the average daily dollar volume (across all non-NMS
equity securities) as calculated by the SRO to which such transactions are reported. These
thresholds reflect the Commission’s determination as to what constitutes a material pool of
liquidity traded by ATSs in the respective asset classes: one percent for NMS stocks and five
percent for non-NMS equity securities. The proposed five percent SCI volume thresholds for
Government Securities ATSs would be similar to those for ATSs that trade non-NMS equity
securities. Basing the thresholds on volume as provided to the SRO to which such transactions
are reported is reasonable given that there is no transaction reporting plan for government

391 See Regulation SCI Adopting Release, supra note 3, at 72263.
122
securities and thus, the trading figures are based on dollar volume traded in the United States as
provided by the SRO to which such transactions are reported.
With regard to one commenter’s suggestion that the threshold should be based on
combined notional average daily values of any family of related trading venues, the Commission
requests comment, as set forth below, on whether it would be appropriate to aggregate the
volumes of ATSs that trade the same security or category of securities and are operated by a
common broker-dealer, or operated by affiliated broker-dealers, and treat the ATSs market
places as a single ATS for purposes of determining whether the ATSs meet the threshold levels
in the definition of SCI ATS.
392
One commenter on the 2020 Proposal urged the Commission to apply the deferred
compliance period in the current definition of “SCI ATS” to Government Securities ATSs and
asked for clarification as to whether this provision would be applicable.393 Specifically, the
definition of SCI ATS currently provides that an SCI ATS shall not be required to comply with
the requirements of Regulation SCI until six months after satisfying the thresholds for NMS or
non-NMS stocks for the first time. The Commission believes that it is appropriate to provide
Government Securities ATS that meet the volume threshold in the definition of “SCI ATS” for
the first time a period of time before they are required to comply with the requirements of
Regulation SCI. Thus, the Commission is providing clarification that the deferred compliance
period would be applicable to Government Securities ATSs.394 Accordingly, Rule 1000 would

392 See supra note 379.
393 See BrokerTec Letter at 9-10.
394 As in the 2020 Proposal, the Commission is proposing to amend the last paragraph in the
definition of “SCI alternative trading system or SCI ATS” (newly redesignated paragraph
(5)), which provides for the 6-month deferred compliance period, to apply it to
Government Securities ATSs.
123
provide that, like ATSs trading NMS stocks and non-NMS stocks, a Government Securities ATS
would not be required to comply with the requirements of Regulation SCI until six months after
satisfying the U.S. Treasury Securities or Agency Securities thresholds in the definition for the
first time.395 The Commission believes that this six-month additional compliance period is
appropriate to allow a Government Securities ATS the time needed to take steps to meet the
requirements of the rules, rather than requiring compliance immediately upon meeting the
threshold level.
Government Securities ATSs trading U.S. Treasury Securities and/or Agency Securities
that meet the volume thresholds under the proposed revised definition of SCI ATS would be
subject to the requirements of Regulation SCI, as broadly described below.396 The provision at
17 CFR 242.1001(a) requires SCI entities to establish, maintain, enforce and periodically update
policies and procedures reasonably designed to ensure that their SCI systems and, for purposes
of security standards, indirect SCI systems, have levels of capacity, integrity, resiliency,
availability, and security adequate to maintain their operational capability and promote the
maintenance of fair and orderly markets, and includes certain minimum requirements for those
policies and procedures relating to capacity planning, stress tests, systems development and
testing methodology, the identification of vulnerabilities, business continuity and disaster

395 See Rule 1000 of Regulation SCI.
396 In the 2020 Proposal, the Commission requested comment on whether all of the
obligations in Regulation SCI should apply to Government Securities ATSs that would be
SCI ATSs, or whether only certain requirements should be imposed, such as those
requiring written policies and procedures, notification of systems problems, business
continuity and disaster recovery testing (including testing with subscribers of ATSs), and
penetration testing. While, as discussed above, some commenters argue that Rule
301(b)(6) would be more appropriate framework for Government Securities ATSs (see
supra note 364), no commenters advocate for applying only a subset of the requirements
of Regulation SCI to Government Securities ATSs.
124
recovery plans (including geographic diversity and resumption goals), market data, and
monitoring.397
Rule 1001(b) of Regulation SCI requires that each SCI entity establish, maintain, enforce
and periodically update written policies and procedures reasonably designed to ensure that its
SCI systems operate in a manner that complies with the Exchange Act and the rules and
regulations thereunder and the entity’s rules and governing documents, as applicable, and
specifies certain minimum requirements for such policies and procedures.398
Rule 1001(c) of Regulation SCI requires SCI entities to establish, maintain, enforce
periodically update reasonably designed written policies and procedures that include the criteria
for identifying responsible SCI personnel, the designation and documentation of responsible SCI
personnel, and escalation procedures to quickly inform “responsible SCI personnel” of potential
SCI events.399
Under 17 CFR 242.1002, SCI entities have certain obligations related to SCI events.
Specifically, when any responsible SCI personnel has a reasonable basis to conclude that an SCI
event has occurred, the SCI entity must begin to take appropriate corrective action which must
include, at a minimum, mitigating potential harm to investors and market integrity resulting from
the SCI event and devoting adequate resources to remedy the SCI event as soon as reasonably
practicable.400 Rule 1002(b) provides the framework for notifying the Commission of SCI
events including, among other things, to: immediately notify the Commission of the event;
provide a written notification within 24 hours that includes a description of the SCI event and the

397 17 CFR 242.1001(a) (Rule 1001(a) of Regulation SCI).
398 17 CFR 242.1001(b)(1)-(2).
399 17 CFR 242.1001(c).
400 See 17 CFR 242.1002(a) (Rule 1002(a) of Regulation SCI).
125
system(s) affected, with other information required to the extent available at the time; provide
regular updates regarding the SCI event until the event is resolved; and submit a final detailed
written report regarding the SCI event.401 Rule 1002(c) of Regulation SCI also requires that SCI
entities disseminate information to their members or participants regarding SCI events.402 These
information dissemination requirements are scaled based on the nature and severity of an event.
403
The provison at 17 CFR 242.1003(a) requires SCI entities to provide quarterly reports to
the Commission relating to system changes.404 Rule 1003(b) of Regulation SCI also requires
that an SCI entity conduct an “SCI review” not less than once each calendar year.405 “SCI
review” is defined in Rule 1000 of Regulation SCI to mean a review, following established
procedures and standards, that is performed by objective personnel having appropriate
experience to conduct reviews of SCI systems and indirect SCI systems, and which review
contains: a risk assessment with respect to such systems of an SCI entity; and an assessment of
internal control design and effectiveness of its SCI systems and indirect SCI systems to include
logical and physical security controls, development processes, and information technology
governance, consistent with industry standards.406 Under Rule 1003(b)(2)-(3), SCI entities are

401 See 17 CFR 242.1002(b). For any SCI event that “has had, or the SCI entity reasonably
estimates would have, no or a de minimis impact on the SCI entity’s operations or on
market participants,” Rule 1002(b)(5) provides an exception to the general Commission
notification requirements under Rule 1002(b). Instead, an SCI entity must make, keep,
and preserve records relating to all such SCI events, and submit a quarterly report to the
Commission regarding any such events that are systems disruptions or systems intrusions.
402 See 17 CFR 242.1002(c).
403 See id.
404 See 17 CFR 242.1003(a) (Rule 1003(a) of Regulation SCI).
405 See 17 CFR 242.1003(b).
406 See 17 CFR 242.1000. Rule 1003(b)(1) of Regulation SCI also states that penetration
test reviews of an SCI entity’s network, firewalls, and production systems must be
conducted at a frequency of not less than once every three years, and assessments of SCI
126
also required to submit a report of the SCI review to their senior management, and must also
submit the report and any response by senior management to the report, to their board of
directors as well as to the Commission.407
The provision at 17 CFR 242.1004 sets forth the requirements for testing an SCI entity’s
business continuity and disaster recovery plans with its members or participants.408
SCI entities are required by 17 CFR 242.1005 to make, keep, and preserve certain records
related to their compliance with Regulation SCI409 and by 17 CFR 242.1006 to make required
filings electronically, on Form SCI.410 Finally, 17 CFR 242.1007 contains requirements relating
to a written undertaking when records required to be filed or kept by an SCI entity under
Regulation SCI are prepared or maintained by a service bureau or other recordkeeping service on
behalf of the SCI entity.411
Request for Comment
40. Should Regulation SCI apply to Government Securities ATSs that meet the proposed
definition of SCI ATS? If so, are the proposed revisions to the definition of SCI ATS
appropriate? If not, please specifically explain how the policy goals of Regulation SCI
would be achieved for such systems without application of the regulation.

systems directly supporting market regulation or market surveillance must be conducted
at a frequency based upon the risk assessment conducted as part of the SCI review, but in
no case less than once every three years. See 17 CFR 242.1003(b)(1)(i)-(ii).
407 See 17 CFR 242.1003(b)(2)-(3).
408 See 17 CFR 242.1004 (Rule 1004 of Regulation SCI).
409 See 17 CFR 242.1005 (Rule 1005 of Regulation SCI). Rule 1005(a) of Regulation SCI
relates to recordkeeping provisions for SCI SROs, whereas Rule 1005(b) relates to the
recordkeeping provision for SCI entities other than SCI SROs.
410 See 17 CFR 242.1006 (Rule 1006 of Regulation SCI).
411 See 17 CFR 242.1007 (Rule 1007 of Regulation SCI).
127
41. What are the risks associated with systems issues at a significant Government Securities
ATS? What impact would a systems issue have on the trading of government securities
and the maintenance of fair and orderly markets? Do the government securities markets
have the same types of linkages between trading venues as the equities markets? If not,
what kind of linkages between trading venues exist in the government securities markets?
How does this impact the risk of an SCI event at a Government Securities ATS on the
market and/or market participants? Should all of the requirements set forth in Regulation
SCI apply to Government Securities ATSs that meet the proposed definition of SCI ATS?
42. Should Government Securities ATSs that meet the proposed volume thresholds for SCI
ATSs be governed by the Capacity, Integrity, and Security Rule instead of being defined
as SCI entities? Are there Government Securities ATSs that play a significant role in the
secondary market for U.S. Treasury Securities but do not meet the proposed volume
thresholds for SCI ATSs for which a different threshold should be established to mandate
compliance with the Capacity, Integrity, and Security Rule? If yes, what additional
regulatory requirements, if any, should be imposed on such ATSs? What would be the
costs and benefits associated with applying Rule 301(b)(6) to Government Securities
ATSs that are not SCI ATSs?
43. Should the Commission amend Regulation ATS to require Government Securities ATSs
to comply with Rule 301(b)(6) but adopt a threshold that is lower or higher than 20
percent? For example, should the Commission amend Rule 301(b)(6) to subject
Government Securities ATSs, or certain Government Securities ATSs, to the
requirements of the rule if the Government Securities ATS reaches a 5 percent, 7.5
percent, 10 percent, or 15 percent volume threshold?
44. Should the volume threshold to meet the definition of SCI ATS include trading in U.S.
Treasury Securities and Agency Securities? Should Regulation SCI be applied to ATSs
128
for any other type of government securities? Should Regulation SCI be applied to ATSs
that trade repos or reverse repos on government securities, including repos or reverse
repos on U.S. Treasury Securities, Agency Securities, or both?
45. Should the proposed five percent threshold test for U.S. Treasury Securities be applied to
all types of U.S. Treasury Securities or to a subset of U.S. Treasury Securities? For
example, should the five percent volume test only be applied to transaction volume in onthe-run U.S. Treasury Securities? Should the five percent threshold be applied to
transaction volume in all Agency Securities or to a subset of Agency Securities? If so,
why or why not?
46. Is the proposed five percent threshold an appropriate threshold to apply Regulation SCI
to Government Securities ATSs (inclusive of Communication Protocol Systems, as
proposed), as significant markets for trading in U.S. Treasury Securities or Agency
Securities? If commenters believe that there should be a percent threshold for a subset of
U.S. Treasury Securities, such as on-the-run U.S. Treasury Securities or off-the-run U.S.
Treasury Securities, what should that threshold be?
47. Should the Commission adopt a percent volume threshold that is lower than five percent
for U.S. Treasury Securities, Agency Securities, or both? If so, what percent threshold
should the Commission adopt for U.S. Treasury Securities and Agency Securities? For
example, should the Commission adopt a threshold that is four percent, three percent, two
percent, or one percent for U.S. Treasury Securities? Should the Commission adopt a
threshold that is four percent, three percent, two percent, or one percent for Agency
Securities? Should there be no threshold for U.S. Treasury Securities? Should there be
no threshold for Agency Securities? Please support your views.
48. Should the Commission adopt a percent volume threshold that is higher than five percent
for U.S. Treasury Securities, Agency Securities, or both? For example, should the
129
Commission adopt a threshold that is 7.5 percent, 10 percent, 15 percent, or 20 percent
for U.S. Treasury Securities? Should the Commission adopt a threshold that is 7.5
percent, 10 percent, 15 percent, or 20 percent for Agency Securities?
49. Is it appropriate to use five percent of average weekly dollar volume traded in the United
States as a threshold for application of Regulation SCI requirements to U.S. Treasury
Securities? If the average weekly dollar volumes were to include transactions in the
secondary cash market for U.S Treasury Securities by non-FINRA members, which
currently are not reported to, or collected by, the SRO that makes public average weekly
dollar volume statistics, should the Regulation SCI threshold change? If so, what should
be the appropriate threshold? Please support your views.
50. Is it appropriate to use five percent of average daily dollar volume traded in the United
States as a threshold for the application of Regulation SCI requirements to Agency
Securities?
51. Would the proposed four out of six month period be an appropriate period to measure the
volume thresholds for U.S. Treasury Securities and Agency Securities for purposes of
Regulation SCI? With respect to calculating the appropriate thresholds, would
Government Securities ATSs have available appropriate data with which to determine
whether the proposed thresholds have been met? Would ATSs that trade U.S. Treasury
Securities be able to readily calculate whether they meet the volume thresholds in at least
four out of the preceding six months, given that U.S. Treasury Securities are disseminated
on a weekly, rather than daily basis? If not, what data or information is missing? Would
it be appropriate for the Commission to change the proposed four out of six month period
to a time period measured in weeks (e.g., at least 16 out of the preceding 24 weeks) with
respect to U.S. Treasury Securities? What effect would any such change have on the
likelihood that ATSs trading U.S. Treasury Securities would meet the volume thresholds?
130
52. Should the proposed Regulation SCI volume threshold measurement for Government
Securities ATSs take into account whether Government Securities ATSs are operated by
a common broker-dealer, or operated by affiliated broker-dealers?412 For example,
should the Commission aggregate the Treasury volume of two Government Securities
ATSs that are each operated by a common broker-dealer, or operated by affiliated brokerdealers, for purposes of determining whether the threshold test has been satisfied and, if it
has, apply Regulation SCI to each ATS? Why or why not?
53. Should only certain provisions of Regulation SCI apply to Government Securities ATSs
that meet the proposed definition of SCI ATS? For example, should they only be subject
to certain aspects of Regulation SCI? If so, which provisions should apply? Do
commenters believe that different or unique requirements should apply to the systems of
such Government Securities ATSs? What should they be and why?
54. In what instances, if at all, should the systems of Government Securities ATSs that meet
the proposed definition of SCI ATS be defined as “critical SCI systems”? Please
describe.
55. Which subscribers or types of subscribers should Government Securities ATSs that meet
the proposed definition of SCI ATS consider as “designated members or participants”
that should be required to participate in the annual mandatory business continuity and
disaster recovery testing? Please describe.
56. Should Government Securities ATSs that meet the proposed definition of SCI ATS not
be defined as SCI entities but instead be required to comply with provisions comparable
to provisions of Regulation SCI?

412 See Section V.A.2, infra, discussing the proposed aggregation of volume of affiliated
ATSs for purposes of application of the Fair Access Rule.
131
57. What are the current practices of Government Securities ATSs with respect to the subject
matter covered by Regulation SCI? To what extent do Government Securities ATSs have
practices that are consistent or inconsistent with the requirements under Regulation SCI?
Please describe and be specific. Would the application of Regulation SCI or the
Capacity, Integrity, and Security Rule weaken ATSs’ existing capacity, integrity, and
security programs?
58. Are there characteristics specific to the government securities market that would make
applying Regulation SCI broadly or any specific provision of Regulation SCI to
Government Securities ATSs unduly burdensome or inappropriate?
59. As commenters think about whether and how to apply Regulation SCI to Government
Securities ATSs, are there any lessons commenters can draw from the market stress
during Spring 2020, including, for example, lessons learned regarding business continuity
or capacity planning?
60. Are there characteristics specific to Communication Protocol Systems that would make
applying Regulation SCI broadly or any specific provision of Regulation SCI to such
systems unduly burdensome or inappropriate? For these entities, do commenters believe
that Communication Protocol Systems would have systems that meet the definition of
“SCI systems”? Why or why not? Are there certain types of Communication Protocol
Systems that would have systems that meet the definition while others would not, for
example, RFQ, BWIC, or conditional order systems? Please describe. Are there certain
features or systems functionalities of Communication Protocol Systems that would not
meet the definition of SCI systems, but that should be subject to Regulation SCI as SCI
systems? Please describe. Should only certain provisions of Regulation SCI apply to
Communication Protocol Systems? If so, which provisions should apply? Do
132
commenters believe that different or unique requirements should apply to
Communication Protocol Systems? What should they be and why?
IV. Revised Form ATS-N: Changes Applicable to Government Securities ATSs and
NMS Stock ATSs
A. Proposed Filing and Effectiveness Requirements for Government Securities
ATSs and NMS Stock ATSs
The Commission is re-proposing to amend Rule 304(a) to require that a Covered ATS,
which would include a Government Securities ATS, must comply with Rules 300 through 304 of
Regulation ATS, as applicable, to be exempt from the definition of “exchange” pursuant to Rule
3a1-1(a)(2).413 Rule 304, as proposed to be amended, would require all Government Securities
ATSs to file Form ATS-N, as revised. In addition, Communication Protocol Systems that
choose to comply with Regulation ATS would be required to meet all applicable requirements of
Regulation ATS, including filing a Form ATS-N if they trade NMS stocks, government
securities, or repos. The Commission is proposing to make changes to current Form ATS-N,
including by adding questions about interaction with related markets, liquidity providers, and
surveillance and monitoring, and by making organizational and other changes that would make
the form more relevant for Government Securities ATSs inclusive of Communication Protocol
Systems, as proposed.
414 These changes would be applicable to both Government Securities
ATSs and NMS Stock ATSs and would require NMS Stock ATSs to file amendments to their
existing form.
415
Each Form ATS-N would be subject to an effectiveness process, which would allow the
Commission to review disclosures on Form ATS-N and declare the Form ATS-N ineffective if

413 As proposed, references to “NMS Stock ATSs” throughout Rule 304 would be changed
to refer to “Covered ATSs,” which would encompass Government Securities ATSs. See
supra Section III.B.
414 See infra Section IV.D.
415 See infra Section IV.D.1.
133
the Commission finds, after notice and opportunity for hearing, that such action is necessary and
appropriate in the public interest and the protection of investors. The effectiveness process is not
merit-based, but is designed to facilitate the Commission’s oversight of Covered ATSs, and
address, for example, material deficiencies with respect to the accuracy, currency, and
completeness of disclosures on Form ATS-N.416 The Commission is proposing to apply the
same filing and effectiveness process to Government Securities ATSs that is applicable to NMS
Stock ATSs filing Form ATS-N. However, the Commission is proposing changes, as described
below, to the processes that would apply to both NMS Stock ATSs and Government Securities
ATSs, including with regard to extensions of the Commission review period for initial Form
ATS-N and Form ATS-N amendments and the filing of amendments related to fees.
Commenters on the 2020 Proposal generally supported the requirement that Government
Securities ATSs file Form ATS-G.417 Although one commenter stated that the requirement to
file Form ATS-G is unnecessarily burdensome for Government Securities ATSs with limited
volume,
418 another commenter stated it does not support requiring different levels of public
disclosure by Government Securities ATSs depending on their trading volume, as it could result

416 In the NMS Stock ATS Adopting Release, the Commission stated that, while it will
review Form ATS-N filings, its review “is not designed to verify the accuracy of the
disclosures nor designed as an independent investigation of whether all aspects of the
NMS Stock ATS operations or the ATS-related activities of the broker-dealer operator
are disclosed on Form ATS-N.” See NMS Stock ATS Adopting Release, supra note 2, at
38851. This would equally apply to the Commission’s review of Forms ATS-N filed by
Government Securities ATSs, as proposed.
417 See, e.g., MFA Letter at 5; AFREF Letter, at 3; BrokerTec Letter at 2. One commenter,
which expressed general support for the enhanced filing requirements and urged the
Commission to move forward with finalization and implementation of the proposal,
stated that applying Regulation ATS to Government Securities ATSs that meet certain
volume thresholds would increase public operational transparency. See FIA PTG Letter
at 2.
418 See ICE Bonds Letter I at 4-5.
134
in a complex and confusing system of disclosure for market participants.419 The Commission is
proposing the requirement to file a public Form ATS-N, as revised, for all Government
Securities ATSs, regardless of their volume, as this requirement is designed to allow market
participants to compare Government Securities ATSs, and excluding low volume Government
Securities ATSs from this requirement would undermine the goal of transparency and the ability
of market participants to use Form ATS-N to assess Government Securities ATSs to select the
most appropriate trading venue for their needs.
The Commission is proposing to apply to Government Securities ATSs the existing
provisions of current Rule 304(a) for the filing and Commission review of an initial Form ATSN with a modification to the circumstances under which the Commission can extend the review
period for an initial Form ATS-N.420 The Commission believes that the review process is
appropriate for the same reasons stated in the NMS Stock ATS Adopting Release,
421 will
facilitate the Commission’s oversight of Government Securities ATSs, and will help ensure that
information is disclosed in a complete and comprehensible manner. The differences between
Form ATS-N filed by Government Securities ATSs and Form ATS-N filed by NMS Stock ATSs
should not warrant a different review and effectiveness process and hence the Commission is
proposing to apply the same provisions that are applicable to NMS Stock ATSs to Government
Securities ATSs, which include the following:

419 See MFA Letter at 5.
420 See infra notes 430-432 and accompanying text. The proposed amendment to Rule
304(a) would also apply to the review of initial Form ATS-N filed by NMS Stock ATSs.
421 See NMS Stock ATS Adopting Release, supra note 2, at 38782.
135
• No exemption is available to a Government Securities ATS pursuant to Exchange Act
Rule 3a1-1(a)(2) unless the Government Securities ATS files with the Commission an
initial Form ATS-N,422 and the initial Form ATS-N is effective.423
• The Commission will, by order, declare ineffective an initial Form ATS-N no later
than 120 calendar days from the date of filing with the Commission, or, if applicable,
the end of the extended Commission review period.424 During the Commission
review period, the Government Securities ATS shall amend its initial Form ATS-N
by filing updating amendments, correcting amendments, and fee amendments425 as
applicable.426
• An initial Form ATS-N will become effective, unless declared ineffective, upon the
earlier of: (1) the completion of review by the Commission and publication pursuant
to Rule 304(b)(2)(i); or (2) the expiration of the Commission review period, or, if
applicable, the end of the extended review period.427
• The Commission will, by order, declare an initial Form ATS-N ineffective if it finds,
after notice and opportunity for hearing, that such action is necessary or appropriate

422 The Commission staff may reject a Form ATS-N filing that is defective because, for
example, it is missing sections or missing responses to any sub-questions, or does not
comply with the electronic filing requirements. This is a separate process from the
determination to declare a Form ATS-N ineffective. See NMS Stock ATS Adopting
Release, supra note 2, at 38791.
423 See Rule 304(a)(1)(i).
424 See proposed Rule 304(a)(1)(ii). See also infra note 430.
425 See infra note 451.
426 As proposed, to make material changes to its initial Form ATS-N during the Commission
review period, the Government Securities ATS shall withdraw its filed initial Form
ATS-N and may refile an initial Form ATS-N pursuant to Rule 304(a)(1). See Rule
304(a)(1)(ii)(B).
427 See proposed Rule 304(a)(1)(iii)(A).
136
in the public interest, and is consistent with the protection of investors.428 If the
Commission declares an initial Form ATS-N ineffective, the Government Securities
ATS shall be prohibited from operating as a Government Securities ATS pursuant to
Exchange Act Rule 3a1-1(a)(2). An initial Form ATS-N declared ineffective does
not prevent the Government Securities ATS from subsequently filing a new Form
ATS-N.429
The Commission is re-proposing to amend Rule 304(a)(1)(ii)(A)(1), which currently
provides that the Commission may extend the initial Form ATS-N review period for an
additional 90 calendar days if the Form ATS-N is unusually lengthy or raises novel or complex
issues that require additional time for review, to provide that the Commission may extend the
review period if it finds that an extension is appropriate.
430 The proposed standard is the same

428 Like the review process for Form ATS-N for NMS Stock ATSs, the Commission’s
review of Form ATS-N for Government Securities ATSs would not be merit-based;
instead it would focus on the completeness and comprehensibility of the disclosures. See
NMS Stock ATS Adopting Release, supra note 2, at 38790. In the NMS Stock ATS
Adopting Release, the Commission discussed the circumstances under which the
Commission would declare a Form ATS-N amendment ineffective. Such circumstances
would also apply to the Commission’s review of an amendment to Form ATS-N filed by
a Government Securities ATS. For example, the Commission believes it would be
necessary or appropriate in the public interest, and consistent with the protection of
investors, to declare ineffective a Form ATS-N if, for example, the Commission finds,
after notice and opportunity for a hearing, the Form ATS-N was filed by an entity that
does not meet the definition of a Government Securities ATS; one or more disclosures
reveal non-compliance with Federal securities laws, or the rules or regulations
thereunder, including Regulation ATS; or one or more disclosures on Form ATS-N are
materially deficient with respect to their completeness or comprehensibility. For further
discussion, see infra Section IV.B.2.
429 See Rule 304(a)(1)(iii)(B).
430 See Rule 304(a)(1)(ii)(A)(1). The rule provides that the Commission extends the review
period, it will notify the Government Securities ATS in writing within the initial 120-
calendar day review period and will briefly describe the reason for the determination for
which additional time for review is required. The Commission may also extend the
initial Form ATS-N review period for any extended review period to which a duly
137
standard for extending the Commission review period for SRO rule filings under Section 19 of
the Exchange Act.431 This would apply to Form ATS-N filed by Government Securities ATSs as
well as NMS Stock ATSs. The Commission believes that extending the Commission review
period for Form ATS-N if it finds that an extension is appropriate would facilitate an effective
review process.
432 For example, if an ATS’s disclosures on an initial Form ATS-N are difficult
to understand or appear to be incomplete, the Commission may need additional time to discuss
the disclosures with the ATS to ascertain whether to declare the Form ATS-N ineffective, even if
the form is not unusually lengthy or does not raise novel or complex issues. Rather than moving
to declare an initial Form ATS-N ineffective because of material deficiencies with respect to
completeness and comprehensibility, the Commission could extend the review period to allow
the filer to resolve the deficiencies. As under current Rule 304(a)(1)(ii)(A)(1), in such case, the
Commission will notify the Covered ATS in writing within the initial 120-calendar day review
period and will briefly describe the reason for the determination for which additional time for
review is required.
The Commission is also re-proposing a process for Legacy Government Securities ATSs
that have a Form ATS on file with the Commission as of the effective date of any final rule to
continue to operate during the Commission’s review period.433 In addition, to allow a Currently

authorized representative of the Form ATS-N agrees in writing. See Rule
304(a)(1)(ii)(A)(2).
431 See 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(2)(A)(ii).
432 In the Commission staff’s experience reviewing Form ATS-N filed by NMS Stock ATSs,
the Commission review period was extended (either by the Commission or by the
agreement of a duly authorized representative of the ATS) for 33 of the 43 Forms ATS-N
that the Commission has reviewed and published. In its review of each Form ATS-N, the
Commission staff engaged in extensive conversations with the NMS Stock ATS with
regard to the NMS Stock ATS’s disclosures on its initial Form ATS-N.
433 See proposed Rule 304(a)(1)(iv). Other than the differences discussed below, the
proposed process is similar to the process currently provided under Rule 304(a)(1)(iv) for
138
Exempted Government Securities ATS or Covered Newly Designated ATS to continue to
operate without disruption while its initial Form ATS-N is under Commission review, the
Commission is proposing to amend Rule 304(a)(1)(i) to provide that a Currently Exempted
Government Securities ATS or Covered Newly Designated ATS may continue to operate
pursuant to Regulation ATS until its initial Form ATS-N becomes effective. The Commission
believes that all Legacy Government Securities ATSs – whether they are operating pursuant to a
Form ATS or whether they have operated as a Currently Exempted Government Securities ATS
– should be permitted to continue to operate during the Commission review period. The
Commission further believes Covered Newly Designated ATSs should be permitted to operate
without disruption to their participants and the market. A Government Securities ATS or
Covered Newly Designated ATS would file with the Commission an initial Form ATS-N no later
than the date 90 calendar days after the effective date of any final rule. An initial Form ATS-N
filed by a Legacy Government Securities ATS would supersede and replace a previously filed
Form ATS of the Legacy Government Securities ATS. A Legacy Government Securities ATS
that fails to comply with the requirements of Regulation ATS by filing Form ATS-N by the 90th
calendar day from the effective date of any final rule and continues operating as a Government
Securities ATS would no longer qualify for the exemption provided under Rule 3a1-1(a)(2), and
thus, risks operating as an unregistered exchange in violation of Section 5 of the Exchange Act.
If a Legacy Government Securities ATS that has a Form ATS on file with the Commission seeks
to trade, for example, government securities and corporate bonds fails to file a Form ATS-N by
the 90th calendar day, the ATS must either file a cessation of operations report on Form ATS or

Legacy NMS Stock ATSs. “Legacy NMS Stock ATSs” are NMS Stock ATSs that were
operating pursuant to an initial operation report on Form ATS on file with the
Commission as of January 7, 2019. The Commission is proposing to delete references to
Legacy NMS Stock ATSs throughout the rule text, as the transition period for such ATSs
has ended.
139
file a material amendment on Form ATS to remove information related to government securities.
A Legacy Government Securities ATS or Newly Designated Covered ATS would be permitted
to operate, on a provisional basis, pursuant to the filed initial Form ATS-N, and any amendments
thereto, while the Commission reviews the initial Form ATS-N.
The Commission is proposing the initial Commission review period (not including any
extension) for an initial Form ATS-N filed by a Legacy Government Securities ATS or Newly
Designated Covered ATS to be 180 calendar days. Based on Commission staff experience
reviewing initial Form ATS-N filings during the transition period for Form ATS-N, the
Commission believes it would be appropriate to provide a 180 calendar day review period rather
than the 120 calendar day review period that was applicable to initial filings by Legacy NMS
Stock ATSs and that would be applicable to a new Covered ATSs under Rule 304(a)(1)(ii)(A).
434
The 180 calendar day review period is designed to provide Commission staff with adequate time
to review filings, discuss disclosures with Covered ATSs, and address any deficiencies.
For the same reasons discussed above,435 the Commission is proposing to amend Rule
304(a)(1)(iv)(B) to provide that the Commission can extend the initial Form ATS-N review
period for Legacy Government Securities ATSs by an additional 120 calendar days436 if it
determines that a longer period is appropriate.
Other than the proposed changes to the circumstances under which the Commission may
extend the Commission review period, the Commission is also proposing that the process for the

434 See supra note 424 and accompanying text.
435 See supra notes 430-432 and accompanying text.
436 Consistent with the process for Legacy NMS Stock ATSs today, Rule 304(a)(1)(iv)
would permit the Commission to extend the initial Form ATS-N review period for
Legacy Government Securities ATSs for an additional 120-calendar days. See infra note
437.
140
Commission to review and declare ineffective, if necessary, an initial Form ATS-N filed by a
Legacy Government Securities ATS would be the same as the process for an initial Form ATS-N
filed by a Legacy NMS Stock ATS.437 Given the proposed intended uses of Form ATS-N to
allow the Commission to monitor developments and carry out its oversight functions over
Government Securities ATSs and to enable market participants to make more informed decisions
about how their trading interest will be handled by the ATSs, the Commission believes that it is
important for a Government Securities ATS to maintain an accurate, current, and complete Form
ATS-N.438 Providing the Commission with the opportunity to review Form ATS-N disclosures
helps ensure that information is disclosed in a complete and comprehensible manner.439
As the intended uses of Form ATS-N filed by Government Securities ATS and Form
ATS-N disclosures filed by NMS Stock ATSs are similar, the Commission is proposing the same
filing requirements that are currently applicable to Form ATS-N amendments filed by NMS
Stock ATSs to Form ATS-N amendments filed by Government Securities ATSs. Like an NMS
Stock ATS, a Government Securities ATS would be required to amend Form ATS-N:

437 See Rule 301(b)(2)(viii). Rule 304(a)(1)(iv)(B), as proposed, would provide that the
Commission may, by order, as provided in Rule 304(a)(1)(iii), declare an initial Form
ATS-N filed by a Legacy Government Securities ATS or Covered Newly Designated
ATS ineffective no later than 180 calendar days from the date of filing with the
Commission, or, if applicable, the end of the extended review period. As proposed, the
Commission may extend the initial Form ATS-N review period for a Legacy Government
Securities ATS or Covered Newly Designated ATS for: an additional 120 calendar days
if the Commission determines that a longer period is appropriate, in which case the
Commission will notify the Legacy Government Securities ATS or Covered Newly
Designated ATS in writing within the initial 180-calendar day review period and will
briefly describe the reason for the determination for which additional time for review is
required; or any extended review period to which a duly-authorized representative of the
Legacy Government Securities ATS agrees in writing.
438 See NMS Stock ATS Proposing Release, supra note 29 (discussing the proposed process
for amendments to, and Commission review of, Form ATS-N filed by NMS Stock
ATSs).
439 See NMS Stock ATS Adopting Release, supra note 2, Section IV.A.3.
141
• At least 30 calendar days, or the length of any extended review period, prior to the
date of implementation of a material change to the operations of the Government
Securities ATS or to the activities of the broker-dealer operator or its affiliates that
are subject to disclosure on the Form ATS-N, other than changes related to order
display or fair access, which will be contingent amendments reported pursuant to
Rule 304(a)(2)(i)(D), or fees, which will be fee amendments reported pursuant to
Rule 304(a)(2)(E) (“material amendment”).
440
• No later than 30 calendar days after the end of each calendar quarter to correct
information that has become inaccurate or incomplete for any reason and was not
required to be reported to the Commission as a material amendment, correcting
amendment, contingent amendment, or fee amendment (“updating amendment”).
441
• Promptly to correct information in any previous disclosure on the Form ATS-N, after
discovery that any information previously filed on a Form ATS-N was materially
inaccurate or incomplete when filed (“correcting amendment”).
442
• No later than the date that information required to be disclosed in Part III, Item 23 on
Form ATS-N, which addresses fair access, has become inaccurate or incomplete
(“contingent amendment”). Because the order display and execution access rule
under Rule 301(b)(3) does not apply to Government Securities ATSs, Government
Securities ATSs would not be required to disclose information pertaining to order

440 See Rule 304(a)(2)(i)(A). The Commission is proposing revisions to Rule
304(a)(2)(i)(A) to reference fee amendments and to clarify the language of the provision.
See also infra note 451.
441 See Rule 304(a)(2)(i)(B). See also infra note 451.
442 See Rule 304(a)(2)(i)(C). For a discussion of when an ATS should file a correcting
amendment, see NMS Stock ATS Adopting Release, supra note 2, at 38806.
142
display and execution access. Accordingly, for Government Securities ATSs, Rule
304(a)(2)(i)(D) would only apply to the fair access disclosure on Form ATS-N.443
• No later than after the date that information required to be disclosed in Part III, Item
18 on Form ATS-N has become inaccurate or incomplete (“fee amendment”).
In the NMS Stock ATS Adopting Release, the Commission provided examples of
scenarios that are particularly likely to implicate a material change.444 In consideration of
Commission staff’s experience with Form ATS-N, the proposed change to include
Communication Protocol Systems in the definition of “exchange,” and the proposed changes to
Form ATS-N, the Commission is reiterating and adding to the list of scenarios particularly likely
to implicate a material change, which would include, but are not limited to: (1) a broker-dealer
operator or its affiliates beginning to trade on the Covered ATS; (2) a change to the broker-dealer
operator’s policies and procedures governing the written safeguards and written procedures to
protect the confidential trading information of subscribers pursuant to Rule 301(b)(10)(i) of
Regulation ATS, including types of persons that have access to confidential trading
information;445 (3) a change to the types of participants on the Covered ATS or the eligibility to
participate in the ATS; (4) the introduction or removal of, or change to, an order type or type of

443 The Commission is re-proposing to revise Rule 304 to replace references to “Order
Display and Fair Access Amendments” with “Contingent Amendments.” The term
“Contingent Amendment” would apply to amendments related to Form ATS-N
disclosures regarding order display and fair access, as applicable, under Rule
304(a)(2)(i)(D) to Form ATS-N filed by both NMS Stock ATSs and Government
Securities ATSs.
444 See NMS Stock ATS Adopting Release, supra note 2, at 38803.
445 In the Commission’s experience, a change in ownership of the broker-dealer operator that
does not result in the change in the registered entity nevertheless may be likely to
implicate a material change, in that, among other things, it may result in a change to the
persons who have access to confidential trading information. A change in the brokerdealer operator, however, would require the Covered ATS to cease operations and file a
new Form ATS-N. See infra notes 527-528 and accompanying text.
143
message that subscribers can receive or send; (5) the introduction of, or change to, requirements,
conditions, or restrictions to send, receive, or view trading interest; (6) a change to the interaction
of trading interest (including, for example, procedures related to how participants send, receive,
respond to, counter, and firm-up trading interest) and priority procedures; (7) any change to ATS
functionalities or procedures that affect pricing of trading interest; (8) a change that would
impact a subscriber’s ability to send or interact with trading interest, including a change to the
segmentation of orders and participants; (9) a change to the manner in which the Covered ATS
displays or makes known trading interest, including to limit or expand the trading interest that
subscribers can view or interact with; (10) a change of a service provider to the operations of the
Covered ATS that has access to subscribers’ confidential trading information; and (11) a change
to introduce or stop routing or sending away trading interest. A Covered ATS that notifies
subscribers, or certain subscribers, about potential changes to ATS operations or ATS activities
of the broker-dealer operator or its affiliates in advance of filing a Form ATS-N amendment
demonstrates that the ATS determines such information to be important to subscribers and may
likely be material. In addition, from the Commission staff’s experience, if a Covered ATS
removes an important functionality or no longer makes a functionality available to subscribers or
certain groups of subscribers, the removal of such functionality could be a material change.
This list is not intended to be exhaustive, and does not mean to imply that other changes
to the operations of a Covered ATS or the activities of the broker-dealer operator or its affiliates
would not constitute material changes. Further, the Covered ATS should generally consider
whether the cumulative effect of a series of changes to the operations of the Covered ATS or the
activities of the broker-dealer operator or its affiliates with regard to the Covered ATS is
material. In addition, in determining whether a change is material, an ATS generally should
consider whether such change would affect: (1) the competitive dynamics among ATS
subscribers; (2) the execution quality or performance of the orders of any subscriber or category
144
of subscribers; (3) the nature or composition of counterparties with which any subscriber or
category of subscribers interact; and (4) the relative speed of access or execution of any
subscriber or group of subscribers.446
The Commission is proposing a new amendment type – fee amendments – that is not
currently provided for under Rule 304(a)(2), but would be filed by both NMS Stock ATSs and
Government Securities ATSs. The Covered ATS would be required to file a fee amendment no
later than the date it makes a change that makes information reported on Part III, Item 18,
inaccurate or incomplete.447 Part III, Item 18 of Form ATS-N would require disclosure of feerelated information, including, among other things, a description of the types of fees, structure of
fees, variables that impact fees, differentiation among fees among types of subscribers, the range
of fees, and rebates or discounts, for use of ATS services or services that are bundled with the
subscriber’s use of non-ATS services or products offered by the broker-dealer operator or its
affiliates.
448 Changes that would trigger a fee amendment would include, among other things, a
change to the range of fees, a change to the factors that affect the fees that the ATS charges, or
any other change to the fee disclosure in Part III, Item 18. In the Commission staff’s experience

446 For further discussion, see NMS Stock ATS Adopting Release, supra note 2, Section
IV.B.1.a. In the NMS Stock ATS Adopting Release, the Commission stated that in
determining whether a change is material, an ATS should generally consider whether
such change would affect “the fees that any subscriber or category of subscribers would
pay to access and/or use the ATS.” See id. at 38803. As discussed below, the
Commission is proposing a new amendment type for fee amendments, and as a result,
changes to information in the fee disclosure in Part III, Item 18 would not be material
changes for purposes of Rule 304(a)(2).
447 If the Covered ATS files a fee amendment in advance to notice a change of a fee, for
example, the Covered ATS should provide the effective date for the fee so that
subscribers can understand when the fee will be effective and thus impact them. The
Covered ATS must subsequently file an updating amendment on Form ATS-N to remove
the outdated effective date and any fees no longer in effect to ensure that the disclosures
on Form ATS-N are current and accurate.
448 See infra Section IV.D.5.r.
145
reviewing Form ATS-N amendments, NMS Stock ATSs have taken varied approaches to the
reporting of fees. In some cases, NMS Stock ATSs have treated fee changes as material
changes, and filed amendments on Form ATS-N at least 30 calendar days before implementing
the changes. In other cases, NMS Stock ATSs have filed updating amendments no later than 30
days from the end of the calendar quarter in which the ATS implemented the fee change. The
Commission believes that fee changes should be transparent and that both potential and current
subscribers and customers of subscribers, generally, should be timely informed of a change to a
Covered ATS’s fees, as required to be reported on Form ATS-N. The Commission notes that
today, pursuant to Section 19(b) of the Exchange Act,449 national securities exchanges file
proposed rule changes with the Commission that may take effect upon filing with the
Commission if the rule change is “establishing or changing a due, fee, or other charge applicable
only to a member,” no matter the materiality of the rule change.450 NMS Stock ATSs, which
compete with national securities exchanges, are not subject to this provision to the Exchange
Act, and are required to file a material amendment to Form ATS-N, and thus wait 30 calendar
days before implementing a fee change, if the fee change is material. Given this difference
between national securities exchanges and NMS Stock ATSs, the Commission believes that
requiring Covered ATSs to file a fee amendment no later than the date it makes a change to a fee
or fee disclosure would provide the public with sufficient notice about a fee change while
allowing the ATS to act nimbly to make fee changes to respond to, for example, competitive
pressures from other trading venues. The Commission is also making conforming changes in
 449 15 U.S.C. 78s(b).
450 17 CFR 240.19b-4(f)(2).
146
Rule 304 that would, among other things, allow Covered ATSs to file fee amendments to initial
Form ATS-N while the initial Form ATS-N is under Commission review.451
Like Form ATS-N filed by NMS Stock ATSs, the Commission would, by order, declare
ineffective any Form ATS-N amendment filed by Government Securities ATSs pursuant to Rule
304(a)(2)(i)(A) through (E) if it finds that such action is necessary or appropriate in the public
interest and is consistent with the protection of investors.452 However, the Commission is
proposing to amend Rule 304(a)(2)(ii), which currently provides that the Commission would
declare any Form ATS-N amendment ineffective no later than 30 calendar days from filing with
the Commission, to permit the Commission to extend the Form ATS-N amendment review
period by an additional 30 calendar days if the Commission finds that a longer period is
appropriate. The ability to extend the review period for amendments to Form ATS-N by an
additional 30 calendar days would allow the Commission additional time to review and discuss
the amendment with the filer, and, if necessary, declare the Form ATS-N amendment ineffective.
Based on the Commission staff’s experience reviewing Form ATS-N amendments, amendments
on Form ATS-N vary in length, complexity, as well as comprehensibility and clarity. The
Commission staff frequently engages in extensive discussions with NMS Stock ATSs about their
disclosures in an amendment, and as a result of these discussions, ATSs often amend a filed
amendment to address deficiencies within the Commission review period. To date, NMS Stock
ATSs have resolved such deficiencies within the Commission review period, and the

451 See proposed changes to Rule 304(a)(1)(ii)(B) and Rule 304(a)(1)(iv)(C). In addition,
the Commission is proposing to revise the definition of “Material Amendment” to state
that it would not include a fee amendment required to be filed pursuant to Rule
304(a)(2)(i)(E) and to reorder the language in Rule 304(a)(1)(ii)(A) to improve the
readability of the provision. See Rule 304(a)(2)(i)(A). The Commission is also
proposing to revise the definition of “Updating Amendment” to state that it would not
include a fee amendment. See Rule 304(a)(2)(i)(B).
452 See Rule 304(a)(2)(ii).
147
Commission has not declared a Form ATS-N amendment ineffective. However, in several
circumstances, NMS Stock ATSs have submitted draft amendments to the Commission staff,
which has provided the staff and NMS Stock ATSs with additional time to resolve potential
deficiencies. NMS Stock ATSs, however, have no obligation to provide such a draft to the
Commission, nor does the Commission staff have any obligation to review such a draft.
In the event a Covered ATS is unable to address deficiencies within the initial 30-day
review period, the Commission believes that, rather than moving to declare a Form ATS-N
amendment ineffective, it would be appropriate to extend the review period and allow the filer
more time to address such deficiencies. The Commission believes that 30 additional calendar
days will give the Covered ATS sufficient time to address any such concerns. If the Covered
ATS is unable to resolve the deficiencies within the extended review period, the Commission
will declare the Form ATS-N amendment ineffective if it finds that such action is necessary or
appropriate in the public interest, and is consistent with the protection of investors. The
Commission is therefore proposing that the Commission may extend the Form ATS-N
amendment review period by an additional 30 calendar days if the Commission finds that a
longer period is appropriate, or to any extended review period to which a duly-authorized
representative of the ATS agrees in writing. The Commission is also proposing to amend Rule
304(a)(2)(i)(A) to provide that a Covered ATS may not implement a material change before the
end of the 30 calendar day review period or the length of any extended review period under
proposed Rule 301(a)(2)(ii)(A).453 Today, an NMS Stock ATS may not implement a material

453 See proposed Rule 304(a)(2)(i)(A) (stating that a Covered ATS shall amend a Form ATSN at least 30 calendar days, or the length of any extended review period pursuant to Rule
304(a)(2)(ii)(A), prior to the date of implementation of a material change (other than a
correcting amendment) to the operations of the Covered ATS or to the activities of the
broker-dealer operator or its affiliates that are subject to disclosure on the Form ATS-N).
148
change until the expiration of the 30-calendar day Commission review period. Likewise, as a
result of the proposed change, in the event of an extension of the Commission review period, the
Covered ATS would therefore not implement the material change until the review period has
expired. As discussed below, the Commission would disseminate the material amendment
following the expiration of the review period or any extended review period.454
The Commission is also re-proposing to apply current Rule 304(a)(3) to require a
Government Securities ATS to notice its cessation of operations on a Form ATS-N at least 10
business days prior to the date it will cease to operate as a Government Securities ATS.
455 Filing
such a notice would cause the Form ATS-N to become ineffective on the date designated by the
Government Securities ATS. In addition, the Commission is re-proposing to apply Rule
304(a)(4) to Government Securities ATSs, which would allow the Commission to order to
suspend (for a period not exceeding twelve months),456 limit, or revoke a Covered ATS’s
exemption pursuant to Rule 3a1-1(a)(2) if the Commission finds, after notice and opportunity for
hearing, that such action is necessary or appropriate in the public interest.
457 Rule 304(a)(4)(ii)
would provide that if the exemption for a Government Securities ATS is suspended or revoked
pursuant to Rule 304(a)(4)(i), the Government Securities ATS would be prohibited from
operating pursuant to the Rule 3a1-1(a)(2) exemption.458 If the exemption for a Government

454 See infra note 463 and accompanying text.
455 See Rule 304(a)(3).
456 The proposed limitation on the time frame for suspension is consistent with Federal
securities law provisions pursuant to which the Commission may suspend the activities or
registration of a regulated entity. See, e.g., Exchange Act Section 15(b)(4) (15 U.S.C.
78o(b)(4)) and 15B(c)(2) (15 U.S.C. 78o-4(c)(2)). See NMS Stock ATS Proposing
Release, supra note 29, at 81031 n.322.
457 See proposed Rule 304(a)(4)(i).
458 See Rule 304(a)(4). In making a determination as to whether suspension, limitation, or
revocation of a Government Securities ATS’s exemption is necessary or appropriate in
the public interest, and is consistent with the protection of investors, the Commission
149
Securities ATS is limited pursuant to Rule 304(a)(4)(i), the Government Securities ATS shall be
prohibited from operating in a manner otherwise inconsistent with the terms and conditions of
the Commission order.
In addition, Rule 304(a)(4) would provide that prior to issuing an order suspending,
limiting, or revoking a Government Securities ATS’s exemption pursuant to Rule 304(a)(4)(i),
the Commission will provide notice and opportunity for hearing to the Government Securities
ATS, and make the findings specified in Rule 304(a)(4)(i) described above, that, in the
Commission’s opinion, the suspension, limitation, or revocation is necessary or appropriate in
the public interest and is consistent with the protection of investors.459
Request for Comment
61. Should Government Securities ATSs be required to file Form ATS-N, as revised, instead
of Form ATS? Should Government Securities ATSs be required to file a form different
from Form ATS-N?
62. As an alternative to requiring Government Securities ATSs to file Form ATS-N, should
Form ATS, or parts thereof, for Government Securities ATSs be made available to the
public? If made available to the public, is current Form ATS sufficient to provide
information to the public about the operations of Government Securities ATSs?

would, for example, take into account whether the entity no longer meets the definition of
Government Securities ATS under Rule 300(l), does not comply with the conditions to
the exemption (in that it fails to comply with any part of Regulation ATS, including Rule
304), or otherwise violates any provision of Federal securities laws. For further
discussion of such examples as applied to NMS Stock ATSs, see NMS Stock ATS
Proposing Release, supra note 29, at 81032.
459 Pursuant to the Commission’s current information sharing practices with the Department
of the Treasury, the Commission expects to provide the Department of the Treasury with
prompt notice in certain cases, such as when the Commission is declaring a Form ATS-N
ineffective under Rule 304(a)(1)(iii)(b), or suspending, limiting, or revoking the
exemption of a Government Securities ATS under Rule 304(a)(4).
150
63. Do commenters believe that broker-dealers operators of ATS that trade only government
securities or repos might choose to modify their business models so that they would not
be required to comply with enhanced regulatory or operational transparency requirements
for Government Securities ATSs?
64. Should Government Securities ATSs be subject to Rule 304(a), in whole or in part?
65. Should Rule 304(a) be amended to provide that an initial Form ATS-N be made effective
by Commission order or any other means instead of upon publication by the
Commission?
66. Should Rule 304(a) only apply to Government Securities ATSs that trade a certain type
of government security (e.g., U.S. Treasury Securities, Agency Securities)? If so, to
which type of Government Securities ATS should Rule 304 apply (e.g., Government
Securities ATSs that trade U.S. Treasury Securities or Government Securities ATSs that
trade Agency Securities)?
67. Should the Commission require a Currently Exempted Government Securities ATS to file
Form ATS-N and comply with the requirements of Rule 304 to qualify for the exemption
from the definition of exchange?
68. Would the proposal to require a Currently Exempted Government Securities ATS or
Covered Newly Designated ATS to file Form ATS-N by the date 90 calendar days after
the effective date of any final rule provide the ATS sufficient time to transition to
compliance with Regulation ATS and the proposed requirements under Rule 304? If the
Commission were to provide more time for a Covered Newly Designated ATS and/or
Currently Exempted Government Securities ATS to file Form ATS-N, should the
Commission require the Covered Newly Designated ATS and/or Currently Exempted
Government Securities ATS to file an initial operation report on Form ATS to provide
notice of its operations to the Commission before it is required to file a Form ATS-N?
151
Would the proposal to require a Current Government Securities ATS to file a Form ATSN by the date 90 calendar days after the effective date of any final rule provide the ATS
sufficient time to transition to compliance with Rule 304?
69. Should the Commission be permitted to extend the initial Form ATS-N review period if it
finds that it is appropriate to extend such review period?
70. Should a Legacy Government Securities ATS or Covered Newly Designated ATS be
allowed to continue operations during the Commission’s review of its initial Form ATSN?
71. Should the Commission require amendments to Part III, Item 18 of Form ATS-N to be
filed no later than the date that the information on such item becomes inaccurate or
incomplete? Or should the Commission require amendments to Part III, Item 18, or any
specific required disclosure on such Item to be required in advance of implementation of
the change? And if so, how far in advance of implementation and why? Alternatively,
should the Commission allow Covered ATSs more or less time to file a fee amendment?
72. Should the rule provide that the Commission may extend the Form ATS-N amendment
review period by an additional 30 calendar days if the Commission finds that a longer
period is appropriate? Should such extended review period be longer or shorter? Should
the Commission only extend such review period under certain circumstances? If so,
under what circumstances should the Commission extend the review period for a Form
ATS-N amendment?
73. Are there any aspects of Rule 304(a)(2) relating to the filing and review of amendments
that should be modified specifically for Form ATS-N amendments filed by Government
Securities ATSs?
152
74. What changes or types of changes to a Covered ATS’s operations or the activities of the
broker-dealer operator or its affiliates do commenters believe are particularly likely to be
material so as to require a material amendment to Form ATS-N?
75. Should the Commission consider any other factors in determining whether a Form ATSN filed by a Government Securities ATS should become effective or ineffective? If so,
what are they and why?
76. Should the Commission adopt the current process for the Commission to suspend, limit,
or revoke an NMS Stock ATS’s exemption from the definition of “exchange” for
Government Securities ATSs?
B. Public Disclosure of Form ATS-N for Government Securities ATSs and Related
Commission Orders
The Commission would make public certain Form ATS-N reports filed by Government
Securities ATSs pursuant to Rule 304(b).
460 Commission orders related to the effectiveness of
revised Form ATS-N would also be publicly posted on the Commission’s website. The
Commission would apply to Government Securities ATSs the same rules regarding public
disclosure that are currently applicable to NMS Stock ATSs. Applying existing Rule 304(b) to
Government Securities ATSs would mandate greater public disclosure of the operations of these
ATSs through the publication of Form ATS-N and related filings available on the Commission’s
website. Accordingly, the Commission is proposing that Form ATS-N filed by Government
Securities ATSs would be subject to the following:

460 See Rule 304(b)(1) (providing that every Form ATS-N filed pursuant to Rule 304 shall
constitute a “report” within the meaning of Sections 11A, 17(a), 18(a), and 32(a) and any
other applicable provisions of the Exchange Act).
153
• Every Form ATS-N filed pursuant to Rule 304 shall constitute a “report” within the
meaning of Sections 11A, 17(a), 18(a), and 32(a) and any other applicable provisions
of the Exchange Act.461
• The Commission will make public via posting on the Commission’s website, each:
(1) effective initial Form ATS-N, as amended; (2) order of ineffective initial Form
ATS-N; (3) Form ATS-N amendment to an effective Form ATS-N; (4) order of
ineffective Form ATS-N amendment; (5) notice of cessation; and (6) order
suspending, limiting, or revoking the exemption for a Government Securities ATS
from the definition of an “exchange” pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 3a1-1(a)(2).462
The Commission is proposing to make amendments to current Rule 304(b), which would
apply to all Covered ATSs. As the Commission is proposing to amend Rule 304(a)(2)(i)(A) to
allow extensions of the Commission review period, the Commission is proposing to amend Rule
304(b)(2)(iii) to state that material amendments would be made public following the expiration
of the review period “or any extended review period.”463 As a result, the entire Form ATS-N
amendment would not be made public until the review period has expired, at which time the
ATS may implement the change described in the amendment. The Commission is also
proposing to amend Rule 304(b)(2)(iii)(B) to provide that fee amendments would be made public
by the Commission upon filing, consistent with the treatment of updating, correcting, and
contingent amendments, all of which are intended to describe the ATS as it currently operates.

461 See Rule 304(b)(1).
462 See Rule 304(b)(2).
463 See proposed Rule 304(b)(2)(iii).
154
The Commission received several comments on the 2020 Proposal supporting public
disclosure of Form ATS-G and amendments thereto.464 For example, one commenter stated that
public disclosure could improve investors’ ability to select trading venues and as a result, lower
trading costs and increase execution quality.
465 Another commenter, however, stated that
Government Securities ATSs should not be required to make public commercially sensitive
information on Form ATS-G, and that similar investor protection benefits can be achieved
without negative impact by requiring a Government Securities ATS to make such information
available upon request to subscribers, potential subscribers, and the Commission.466 The
Commission believes that the vast majority of information responsive to Form ATS-N would not
be proprietary or commercially sensitive for ATSs to disclose.467

464 See, e.g., SIFMA Letter at 3-4; BrokerTec Letter at 2; AFREF Letter at 3; Bloomberg
Letter at 7; Healthy Markets Association Letter at 7; MFA Letter at 5 (stating that any
alternative that would limit disclosure requirements would be detrimental to achieving
the Commission’s transparency goals and that requiring different levels of disclosure
among Government Securities ATSs based on their trading volume could result in a
complex and confusing system of disclosure).
465 See FINRA Letter at 2.
466 See Tradeweb Letter at 11.
467 In the Commission staff’s experience reviewing disclosures on current Form ATS-N for
NMS Stock ATSs and discussing ATS operations and the requirements of the form with
NMS Stock ATSs, the Commission staff has observed that the information responsive to
the form is not proprietary or commercially sensitive. In the NMS Stock ATS Adopting
Release, the Commission stated that it designed Form ATS-N to not seek disclosure of
certain information that could be proprietary or commercially sensitive. See NMS Stock
ATS Adopting Release, supra note 2, at 38812. In response to commenter concerns
regarding disclosure of proprietary or commercially sensitive information, the
Commission revised the wording of relevant requests in originally proposed Form ATSN to mitigate such concerns or provided guidance regarding the scope of certain
disclosure requests and to require “summary” information. See id. at 38825. The
Commission stated that, in a vast majority of cases, the level of detail required by Form
ATS-N should not require the public disclosure of commercially sensitive information.
See id. at 38825. See also, e.g., infra Section IV.D.4.d (describing that Form ATS-N
requires a “summary” narrative of products and services to avoid disclosure of
commercially sensitive information).
155
The Commission is re-proposing to make Form ATS-N publicly available for all
Government Securities ATSs, regardless of their volume. The Commission believes that most
market participants have limited access to information to adequately assess ATSs that trade
government securities and understand how different ATSs operate. Today, Government
Securities ATSs that are currently subject to Regulation ATS file a Form ATS that is deemed
confidential when filed under Rule 301(b)(2)(vii) of Regulation ATS,468 and Currently Exempted
Government Securities ATSs are not subject to Regulation ATS and not required to file a Form
ATS. The only information the Commission currently makes publicly available regarding
Government Securities ATSs that are currently subject to Regulation ATS is a monthly list of the
names and locations of ATSs with a Form ATS on file with the Commission.
469 In the case
Government Securities ATSs make information about their operations voluntarily available, such
information is limited, and the lack of uniformity or standardization makes it difficult to compare
disclosures across ATSs. Accordingly, through Form ATS-N, the Commission is proposing
disclosures that will provide information that market participants can use to evaluate an ATS as a
potential trading venue. Requiring public disclosure, rather than Government Securities ATSs
responding to individual disclosure requests from subscribers or potential subscribers, will help
to ensure uniformity and standardization of the information Government Securities ATSs make
available.
As proposed, Government Securities ATSs would also be subject to Rule 304(b)(3),
which would require each Government Securities ATS that has a website to post a direct URL

468 See 17 CFR 240.301(b)(2)(vii).
469 See Alternative Trading System List, https://www.sec.gov/foia/docs/atslist.htm.
156
hyperlink to the Commission’s website that contains the documents enumerated in Rule
304(b)(2), which would include the Government Securities ATS’s Form ATS-N filings.470
Request for Comment
77. Should the requirements of Rule 304(b) apply to Form ATS-N reports filed by
Government Securities ATSs, in whole or in part? Should the Commission modify Rule
304(b) in any way for all Covered ATSs?
78. Should Rule 304(b) only apply to Government Securities ATSs that trade a type of
government securities (e.g., U.S. Treasury Securities, Agency Securities)? If so, to which
type of Government Securities ATS should Rule 304 apply?
79. Are there any other requirements that should apply to making public a Form ATS-N
report filed by a Government Securities ATS? Please support your arguments, and if so,
please list and explain such procedures in detail.
80. Should Rule 304(b) apply to Form ATS-N reports filed by a Currently Exempted
Government Securities ATS? If not, which aspects of Rule 304(b) should not apply and
why?
C. Form ATS-N Requirements
The Commission is not re-proposing the use of Form ATS-G for Government Securities
ATSs but is proposing that all Covered ATSs file Form ATS-N as revised. The Commission
believes that, instead of proposing Form ATS-G for Government Securities ATSs, given the
significant overlap between proposed Form ATS-G and existing Form ATS-N, it is appropriate
to require all Covered ATSs to file Form ATS-N, and thus limit the number of unique forms and
simplify filing requirements. Accordingly, the Commission is proposing to apply existing Rule

470 Unlike the 2020 Proposal, the Commission is not proposing to amend Rule 304(b)(3) to
require each Covered ATS to post on its website the most recently disseminated Form
ATS-N within one business day after publication on the Commission’s website.
157
304(c) to Government Securities ATSs, which would require Government Securities ATSs to file
a Form ATS-N, as revised, in accordance with the form’s instructions. The Commission is
proposing to revise the current Form ATS-N instructions by including references to Government
Securities ATSs or Covered ATSs, as applicable, replacing references to order display and fair
access amendments with references to contingent amendments, revising the relevant compliance
dates, adding instructions related to fee amendments, and revising the instructions regarding
describing the applicability of amendments. The instructions require, among other things, that a
Covered ATS provide all the information required by Form ATS-N, including responses to each
Item, as applicable, and the Exhibits, and disclose information that is accurate, current, and
complete.471 Given that the Commission expects market participants to use Form ATS-N to
decide which trading venue is best for them, it is important that Form ATS-N filings comply
with the instructions and that the information provided on Form ATS-N is accurate, current, and
complete. As it is today, Form ATS-N472 would be required to be filed electronically through
EDGAR.
The Commission is proposing to apply Rule 304(c)(2) to Government Securities ATSs,
which provides that any report required under Rule 304 shall be filed on a Form ATS-N, and
include all information as prescribed in the Form ATS-N and the instructions to Form ATS-N.
Rule 304(c)(2) would provide that a Form ATS-N be executed at, or prior to, the time the Form
ATS-N is filed and shall be retained by the Government Securities ATS in accordance with
Rules 302 and 303, and the instructions in Form ATS-N. In the Regulation ATS Adopting
Release, the Commission stated that the requirements to make and preserve records set forth in
Regulation ATS are necessary to make and keep certain records for an audit trail of trading

471 See Item A.3 of the Instructions to Form ATS-N (as revised).
472 See NMS Stock ATS Adopting Release, supra note 2, Section VII.
158
activity and permit surveillance and examination to help ensure fair and orderly markets.
473
Expanding Rule 304(c) to encompass Government Securities ATSs would further these goals.
Request for Comment
81. Should Rule 304(c) be applied, in whole or in part, to Government Securities ATSs?
82. Should Rule 304(c) only apply to Government Securities ATSs that trade a certain type
of government security (e.g., U.S. Treasury Securities, Agency Securities)? If so, to
which type of Government Securities ATS should it apply and why?
D. Form ATS-N Disclosures
Form ATS-N is a public report that provides detailed information about the ATS-related
activities of the broker-dealer operator and its affiliates and the manner of operations of the ATS.
Because the Commission is proposing to require Government Securities ATSs to file a Form
ATS-N instead of previously proposed Form ATS-G,474 the Commission is proposing
amendments to Form ATS-N to solicit disclosures that may be most relevant to market
participants that trade government securities on these markets. In addition, because the
Commission is amending Exchange Act Rule 3b-16 to include Communication Protocol
Systems, the Commission is proposing to amend Form ATS-N to solicit disclosures about unique
operational aspects to those systems. The Commission believes that it is important to revise
Form ATS-N to provide investors with important information about the operations of all ATSs
that trade NMS stocks and, as proposed, government securities.
The Commission is proposing that the amendments to Form ATS-N be applicable to both
NMS Stock ATSs and Government Securities ATSs, and any differences between how the form
requirements would apply to these ATSs are noted below. Given the similar level of

473 See Regulation ATS Adopting Release, supra note 31, at 70877-78.
474 See 2020 Proposal, supra note 4.
159
complexity/sophistication between NMS Stock ATSs and Government Securities ATSs, the
Commission believes that requiring both types of ATSs to file Form ATS-N is appropriate;
however, as described below, certain requests have been tailored for the differences between
NMS Stock ATSs and Government Securities ATSs. The Commission is proposing to revise
Form ATS-N to include information it previously proposed on Form ATS-G, including a
question requiring information about interaction with related markets.475 The Commission is
also proposing to reorganize certain questions on Form ATS-N and to require disclosure about
any surveillance and monitoring that is conducted with respect to the ATS.
476 In response to the
2020 Proposal, one commenter stated that the proposed Form ATS-G disclosures were similar to
those on Form ATS-N, in that they would be categorized in a more standardized manner than
Form ATS, which would allow for better comparisons between ATSs, and enhance the
Commission’s and SRO’s regulatory oversight of Government Securities ATSs.477 The
proposed revisions to Form ATS-N would continue to allow such comparisons, and applying
Form ATS-N to Government Securities ATSs would better help enable market participants to
compare Government Securities ATSs.
The Commission is proposing certain amendments to Form ATS-N that would apply
globally to Form ATS-N unless otherwise noted below. First, as Form ATS-N would be
applicable to both Government Securities ATSs and NMS Stock ATSs, the Commission is
proposing to replace references to “NMS Stock ATSs” throughout the form to “Covered ATSs”

475 See infra Section IV.D.5.k.
476 See infra Section IV.D.5.i.
477 See FINRA Letter at 4.
160
or “ATSs.”478 Second, the Commission is proposing to replace references to “orders”
throughout Form ATS-N to reference “trading interest,” which would encompass non-firm
trading interest.479 Third, Form ATS-N would include an instruction at the beginning of Part III
to require that the Covered ATS identify and explain any differences among and between
subscribers, persons whose trading interest is entered into the ATS by a subscriber or the brokerdealer operator, the broker-dealer operator, and any affiliates of the broker-dealer.480 Because
this disclosure would be integrated in each Item, the Commission is proposing to delete the
separate sub-questions in Part III that ask about whether services and functionalities and
conditions or requirements related to such services and functionalities are the same for all
subscribers and the broker-dealer operator.481 Fourth, the Commission is proposing to change
references to “Trading Centers” to “trading venues,” which would include trading centers, but
also include venues relevant to the trading of government securities and repos and
Communication Protocol Systems.
482 The term “trading venue” encompasses a broader group of
entities that could, for example, result in an execution or affect the handling of a subscriber’s
trading interest. The Commission explains below each requirement of Form ATS-N and why the
Commission is proposing to apply that requirement to Government Securities ATSs. To the
extent that the Commission is proposing a change to the requirement of Form ATS-N that would

478 The Form ATS-N Cover Page (Type of Covered ATS), Part I, Item 8.a, and Part III,
Items 23, 24(a), and 24(d)(i) will refer to “NMS Stock ATSs” because such requests are
applicable only to NMS Stock ATSs.
479 See infra note 496 and accompanying text. See proposed revisions to Form ATS-N, Part
II, Items 1(a), 1(c), 2(a), 2(c), 3(a), 3(b), 4(a), 5(a), and 5(c); Part III, Items 4, 5(a), 5(b),
10(a), 12, 13(a), 13(c), 13(d), 14(a), 15, 16(a), 16(b), 17, and 22.
480 See supra notes 563-564 and accompanying text.
481 See infra note 565.
482 See infra note 497 and accompanying text. See proposed revisions to Form ATS-N Part
II, Item 4 and Part III, Item 7.
161
affect the reporting obligation of an NMS Stock ATS, the Commission identifies that change and
the information the NMS Stock ATS would be required to disclose. In addition, to use consistent
terminology throughout Form ATS-N, the Commission is proposing to change certain references
to activity “in” the ATS to activity “on” the ATS.483
The Commission believes that Form ATS-N’s public disclosures would provide
important information to market participants that would help them better understand these
operational facets of Covered ATSs and select the best trading venue based on their needs. The
Commission believes that the vast majority of responsive information in Form ATS-N, as
proposed to be revised, would not be proprietary or commercially sensitive.484
1. Amendments to Form ATS-N for NMS Stock ATSs
If the revisions to Form ATS-N were adopted and become effective, an NMS Stock ATS
with an effective Form ATS-N or a Form ATS-N that is under Commission review would be
required to file an amendment to its Form ATS-N so that its disclosures, as amended, meet all
the requirements of Form ATS-N, as revised. If the proposed revisions to Form ATS-N become
effective, a NMS Stock ATS would be required, in accordance with the instructions of the form,
to amend its Form ATS-N so that it is complete.485 An NMS Stock ATS is required, pursuant to
Rule 304(a)(2)(B), to file an updating amendment no later than 30 days after the end of each
calendar quarter to correct information that has become inaccurate or incomplete for any reason.
Specifically, an NMS Stock ATS with an effective Form ATS-N, or an NMS Stock ATS whose
Form ATS-N is under Commission review, would be required to, among other things, amend its

483 See proposed changes to Part II, Items 1 and 2 and Part III, Items 4(a), Item 22(a), Item
24(d)(ii).
484 See infra Section IV. See also supra note 467.
485 See Instruction A.3 of Form ATS-N (requiring that a Form ATS-N filing is accurate,
current, and complete).
162
Form ATS-N to disclose new identifying information and types of securities traded required by
Part I, and to provide information responsive to new requests regarding new categories of types
of subscribers (Part III, Item 1), monitoring and surveillance (proposed Part III, Item 9),
interaction with related markets (proposed Part III, Item 11), the identity of liquidity providers
(Part III, Item 12), and post-trade processing (proposed Part III, Item 21).
In addition, the NMS Stock ATS would be required to amend its Form ATS-N to
reorganize responses, including, among others, to move disclosures related to the activities of
employees of the broker-dealer operator or its affiliates that service the operations of the ATS
and another business unit of the broker-dealer operator or affiliate to proposed Part II, Item 7(a),
and move discussion of after-hours use of orders from current Part III, Item 18 to proposed Part
III, Item 4(b)-(c). In addition, the NMS Stock ATS would be required to separately discuss
information relevant to trading facilities or rules for bringing together orders of buyers and
sellers in proposed Part III, Item 7 and information related to use of non-firm trading interest in
proposed Part III, Item 8. The NMS Stock ATS would also be required to amend its responses to
disclose any differences in treatment among subscribers, persons whose trading interest is
entered into the ATS by a subscriber or the broker-dealer operator, the broker-dealer operator,
and any affiliates of the broker-dealer operator as relevant throughout the responses to Part III
rather than disclosing differences in treatment between any subscribers and the broker-dealer in
specific sub-parts of Part III, as required by current Form ATS-N.
2. Definitions
The Commission is proposing to amend certain definitions in the instructions to Form
ATS-N. The Commission is re-proposing to replace the current definition of “person” in Form
163
ATS-N, which is provided by the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (“Advisers Act”)486 with the
different definition of “person” as defined under the Exchange Act.487 Because Regulation ATS
is a Commission regulation under the Exchange Act, the Commission believes that it is more
appropriate to apply the definition of “person” under the Exchange Act than the Advisers Act,
which is not applicable to ATSs. Although the definitions are not identical, the Commission
believes the differences between the definitions are unlikely to result in differences to the
disclosures required by Form ATS-N.488 To the extent ATSs might have found ambiguous the
Commission’s use of the Advisers Act definition in the context of an Exchange Act rule, the
Commission believes that this proposed change will mitigate any such concerns.
The Commission is also proposing to change the definition of “NMS Stock ATS” in the
instructions to the form to conform to the proposed changes to the definition in Rule 300 and
state that NMS Stock ATSs shall not trade securities other than NMS stocks.489 The
Commission is also proposing to add definitions of “Agency Security,”490 “Government
Security,”491 “Government Securities ATS,”492 “Legacy Government Securities ATS,”493 and

486 15 U.S.C. 80a-2(a)(28) (defining “person” as “a natural person or a company”).
487 15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(9) (defining the term “person” as a natural person, company,
government, or political subdivision, agency, or instrumentality of a government).
488 The Exchange Act’s inclusion of a “government, or political subdivision, agency or
instrumentality of a government” under the definition of “person” is unlikely to result in
any changes to the disclosures required by the items in Form ATS-N that use the word
“Person” as, in the Commission’s experience, these entities are generally not involved in
the operations of ATSs as subscribers or otherwise.
489 See supra note 254 and accompanying text.
490 See supra note 242 and accompanying text.
491 See supra note 259 and accompanying text.
492 See id.
493 See supra note 256 and accompanying text.
164
“Trading Interest”494 and conform the definition of “Broker-Dealer Operator” to the proposed
revisions in Rule 301(b)(1).495 As proposed, the term “Trading Interest” would be the same
definition provided in proposed Rule 300(q) and Rule 3b-16(e), which would include both orders
as defined under Rule 3b-16(c) and non-firm trading interest.496 In addition, the Commission is
proposing to replace the term “Trading Center” with “trading venue.” A “trading venue” would
mean a national securities exchange or national securities association that operates an SRO
trading facility, an ATS, an exchange market maker, an OTC market maker, a futures or options
market, or any other broker- or dealer-operated platform for executing trading interest internally
by trading as principal or crossing orders as agent.497 The proposed definition of “trading venue”
would encompass “trading centers” as defined under 17 CFR 242.600(b)(78) (Rule 600(b)(78) of
Regulation NMS), futures and options markets, which the Commission believes may be relevant
to the trading of government securities and repos, and also would encompass broker- or dealeroperated platforms for executing trading interest by trading as a principal or crossing orders as an
agent.
498
3. Cover Page and Part I; Information about the Broker-Dealer Operator
To make clear that the Commission would not be conducting a merit-based review of
Form ATS-N disclosures filed with the Commission, the Form ATS-N cover page states that the
Commission has not passed upon the merits or accuracy of the disclosures in the filing. On the
cover page of Form ATS-N, the Covered ATS would be required to identify whether it is an

494 See supra Section II.C.1.
495 See supra note 273 and accompanying text.
496 See proposed Rule 3b-16(e) and Rule 300(q).
497 See revised Form ATS-N, Explanation of Terms.
498 This is broader than the definition of “trading center” under Rule 600(b)(78), which
includes “any other broker or dealer than executes orders internally by trading as
principal orders as agent.”
165
NMS Stock ATS or a Government Securities ATS. To indicate whether the ATS is subject to
the transitional rules for Legacy Government Securities ATSs and Newly Designated ATSs,499
the ATS would be required to disclose whether it is a Legacy Government Securities ATS or
Newly Designated ATS.
500 In addition, the Covered ATS would indicate the type of filing by
marking the appropriate checkbox.501
If the Covered ATS is filing an amendment, the ATS would be required to indicate the
Part and Item number of the Form ATS-N that is the subject of the change(s), provide a brief
summary of the substance of the change(s), and state whether or not the change(s) applies to (1)
all subscribers and the broker-dealer operator; (2) only the broker-dealer operator; (3) only
subscribers; (4) only certain subscribers, subsets of subscribers, or customers of subscribers and
the broker-dealer operator; or (5) only certain subscribers, subsets of subscribers, or customers of
subscribers.502 In addition, the Covered ATS would be required to provide the EDGAR

499 See Rule 304(a)(1)(iv), as proposed to be revised.
500 The Commission is proposing to delete the checkbox on the cover page of Form ATS-N
that requires an NMS Stock ATS to select whether the NMS Stock ATS currently
operates pursuant to a Form ATS. Rules 304 and 301(b)(2)(viii) required an NMS Stock
ATS to file a Form ATS-N no later than January 7, 2019. After January 7, 2019, this
checkbox became obsolete.
501 The proposed cover page for Form ATS-N would provide that a filing may be an initial
Form ATS-N, or a Form ATS-N material amendment, updating amendment, correcting
amendment, contingent amendment, or fee amendment. The Commission is proposing to
rename “order display and fair access amendments” to “contingent amendments”
throughout the form. In addition, the Commission is proposing a new fee amendment
type. See supra Section IV.A.
502 See Instruction A.7.h of Form ATS-N. If a change subject to the amendment would
equally apply to all subscribers and the broker-dealer operator, the Covered ATS would
indicate that the change applies to all subscribers and the broker-dealer operator
equally. If a change would apply differently among subscribers or types of subscribers,
between subscribers and the broker-dealer operator, or between the broker-dealer
operator and its affiliates (which may be subscribers to the ATS), the Covered ATS
would state so and describe the differences in treatment. This is the same as how NMS
Stock ATSs currently describe in Form ATS-N and would be required to describe in
Form ATS-N whether or not a change applies to all subscribers and the broker-dealer
166
accession number for the Form ATS-N filing to be amended so that market participants can
identify the filing that is being amended. Pursuant to Rule 304(b)(2)(iii), the Commission would
make public the cover page of a filed Form ATS-N material amendment upon filing and then
make public the entirety of the material amendment following the expiration of the review period
pursuant to Rule 304(a)(2)(ii). For updating, correcting, contingent, and fee amendments, which
would be made public upon filing, the Commission believes that the information in the narrative
could assist market participants in understanding the general nature of the change that the
Covered ATS is implementing.
If the filing is a cessation of operations, the cover page of Form ATS-N would require the
Covered ATS to provide the date that the ATS will cease to operate. The cover page includes a
checkbox where the ATS could indicate whether it wishes to withdraw a previously-filed Form
ATS-N filing and provide the EDGAR accession number for the filing to be withdrawn. The
instructions to Form ATS-N state that an ATS may withdraw an initial Form ATS-N or an
amendment before the end of the applicable Commission review period. In addition, a Covered
ATS could withdraw a notice of cessation of operations at any time before the date that the ATS
indicated it intended to cease operating.503
Part I of revised Form ATS-N would be substantively the same as that for current Form
ATS-N with certain exceptions, as described below. Form ATS-N would require a Covered ATS
to identify the registered broker-dealer that operates the ATS and state whether the filer is a

operator in amendments on Form ATS-N. As required by the instruction, a filer must
provide a brief summary of all changes to the form. Such summary should enable market
participants to understand the nature of the changes being made. For example, if the ATS
is adding a new order type, the ATS should state that it is adding a new order type and
provide a brief description of unique aspects of the order type. The Commission is
proposing to clarify in Instruction A.7.h that changes made in Part IV of Form ATS-N
should not be described, as Part IV is non-public. See infra Section IV.D.6.
503 See Instruction A.9 of Form ATS-N.
167
broker-dealer registered with the Commission. The Commission is proposing new Part I, Item
1(b) of Form ATS-N to require the Covered ATS to indicate whether the registered broker-dealer
is authorized by a national securities association to operate an ATS under the rules of the
national securities association. Proposed Part I, Item 1(b) would facilitate compliance with and
Commission oversight of the requirement that an ATS must register as a broker-dealer and
become a member of an SRO.504 The Commission is also proposing that the Covered ATS
provide the name of the registered broker-dealer or government securities broker or government
securities dealer for the ATS (i.e., the broker-dealer operator), as it is stated on Form BD, in Part
I, Item 2 of Form ATS-N.505
To the extent that a commercial or “DBA” (doing business as) name or names are used to
identify the Covered ATS to the public, the Commission, or its SRO, or if a registered brokerdealer operates multiple Covered ATSs, Form ATS-N would require the full name(s) of the
Covered ATS under which business is conducted, if different, in Part I, Item 3 of Form ATS-N.
Part I, Item 4 of Form ATS-N would require the Covered ATS to provide the broker-dealer
operator’s SEC File Number and Central Registration Depository (“CRD”) Number.
In addition, the Commission is proposing to require Covered ATSs to provide the brokerdealer operator’s Legal Entity Identifier (“LEI”) in Part I, Item 4, if the broker-dealer operator
has an LEI.506 If a broker-dealer operator of the ATS has an LEI, the information may be useful

504 See 15 U.S.C. 78o(b)(8). See also NMS Stock ATS Adopting Release, supra note 2, at
38773.
505 As discussed above, Rule 301(b)(1) currently requires that the ATS register as a brokerdealer under Section 15 of the Exchange Act. As proposed, Rule 301(b)(1) would require
an ATS to register as a broker-dealer under Exchange Act Section 15 or a government
securities broker or government securities dealer under Exchange Act Section
15C(a)(1)(A). See supra note 273 and accompanying text.
506 Current Form ATS-N does not include this Item, and as proposed, NMS Stock ATSs
would also be subject to this proposed requirement. An LEI is a 20-character reference
code that uniquely identifies legally distinct entities that engage in financial transactions
168
to market participants as a globally standardized identifier. The Commission, however, is not
proposing to require broker-dealer operators that do not have an LEI to obtain such an identifier.
In addition, the Commission is proposing to add a question to Part I, Item 4(d) that would require
the ATS to provide the MPID of its broker-dealer operator. Although Part I, Item 5(c) of Form
ATS-N requires the ATS to disclose the MPID of the ATS, the Commission is also requiring the
ATS to provide the MPID of the broker-dealer operator because a broker-dealer operator may
have a unique MPID. Because the broker-dealer operator could potentially use such a unique
MPID to conduct trading and routing activity that affects the ATS, it would be useful to market
participants and regulators to require the ATS to state the broker-dealer operator’s MPID as it
will help them identify the broker-dealer operator and better understand the scope of activities of
the broker-dealer operator.507

and is used by numerous domestic and international regulatory regimes. See Securities
Act Release No. 10425, 82 FR 50988, 51005 (November 2, 2017) (stating that LEIs are
intended to improve market transparency by providing clear identification of
participants). Although several existing ATS broker-dealer operators currently have an
LEI, not all broker-dealer operators have an LEI. In the 2020 Proposal, the Commission
asked commenters whether they believe a Government Securities ATS should be required
to disclose the broker-dealer operator’s LEI. One commenter supported requiring
disclosure of the LEI on Form ATS, Form ATS-R, Form ATS-N, and previously
proposed Form ATS-G, stating, among other things, that it is a global standard for legal
entity identification and that it enables publicly accessible information about an entity’s
ownership structure. This commenter stated that LEI should not replace the CRD, which
serves a purpose in identifying broker-dealers and their affiliates, but should serve as a
complimentary identifier. See letter from Stephan Wolf, CEO, Global Legal Entity
Identifier Foundation, dated March 1, 2021 (“GLEIF Letter”). Another commenter stated
that the utility of asking brokers to obtain another identification number is unclear if the
LEI does not replace FINRA assigned identification numbers. See Bloomberg Letter at
7.
507 The Commission understands that, in certain instances, a broker-dealer operator for an
ATS may use the ATS MPID in connection with its routing activities when the routing
functionality is within the ATS. See FINRA Trade Reporting Guidance, Example 7,
available at
https://www.finra.org/sites/default/files/ATS%20OATS%20and%20Trade%20Reporting
%20Guidance%209-12-14_0_0_0_0.pdf. To the extent that the broker-dealer uses the
ATS MPID in connection with its routing activities, or its routing functionality is inside
169
Part I, Item 5 of Form ATS-N would require the Covered ATS to provide the full name of
the national securities association of which the broker-dealer operator is a member, the effective
date of the broker-dealer operator’s membership with the national securities association, and the
MPID of the ATS. Pursuant to FINRA rules, each ATS is required to use a unique MPID in its
reporting to FINRA, such that its volume reporting is distinguishable from other transaction
volume reported by the broker-dealer operator of the ATS, including volume reported for other
ATSs or trading desks operated by the broker-dealer operator.508 The broker-dealer operator
would provide the unique MPID for the Covered ATS and assess the functionalities related to
trading under that MPID and describe them, as applicable, in response to the information
requests on Form ATS-N. Providing the name of the Covered ATS or DBAs and its MPID
would identify the ATS to the public and the Commission. The name, identity of the brokerdealer operator, any “DBA” name, and the ATS’s MPID are basic information critical to market
participants for identifying the ATS and should be disclosed.
Proposed Part I, Item 6 of Form ATS-N would require the Covered ATS to provide a
URL address for the website of the ATS. Proposed Part I, Item 7 of Form ATS-N would require
the ATS to provide the primary physical street address of the ATS matching system and indicate
whether the ATS has a secondary matching system that may be used in the event that the primary
matching system is not available. If yes, the ATS would be required to provide the secondary
address of the matching system.
To inform market participants about the types of securities that a Covered ATS makes
available for trading, the Commission is proposing to require a Covered ATS to disclose in Part

the ATS, such activities and functionality would be subject to Regulation ATS, including
the disclosure requirements of Form ATS-N.
508 See FINRA Rules 6160, 6170, 6480, and 6720.
170
I, Item 8 of Form ATS-N the types of securities it trades. Part I, Item 8(a) would require an
NMS Stock ATS, but not a Government Securities ATS, to indicate whether the ATS makes
available for trading all NMS stocks.509 If not, the ATS would identify the securities or types of
securities that it does not make available for trading.510 Part I, Item 8(b) would require a
Government Securities ATS, but not an NMS Stock ATS, to select the categorical types of
government securities the ATS trades (i.e., U.S. Treasury Securities, Agency Securities, repos, or
other).511 If the Government Securities ATS trades U.S. Treasury Securities, it would be
required to select whether it trades bills,512 notes,513 bonds,514 TIPS,515 STRIPS,516 and/or
floating rate notes517 and indicate whether each type of security traded is on-the-run, off-the-run,

509 If the NMS Stock ATS suspends trading in securities under certain circumstances, the
ATS should indicate so under Part III, Item 19. See infra Section IV.D.5.r.
510 The Commission notes that most, if not all, NMS Stock ATSs currently disclose whether
they trade all NMS stocks in Part III, Item 11(a) of Form ATS-N.
511 The types of securities traded would be limited to government securities (15 U.S.C.
78c(a)(42)) and repos. See proposed Rule 300(l).
512 Treasury bills are short-term securities that mature in one year or less from their issue
date. Bills are purchased for a price less than or equal to their par (face) value, and when
they mature, Treasury Department pays their par value. See TreasuryDirect, The Basics
of Treasury Securities, available at
https://www.treasurydirect.gov/instit/research/faqs/faqs_basics.htm#tbills (last visited
September 15, 2021).
513 Treasury notes are securities that pay a fixed rate of interest every six months until the
security matures, which is when Treasury Department pays the par value. Treasury notes
mature in more than a year, but not more than 10 years from their issue date. See id.
514 Treasury bonds are securities that pay a fixed rate of interest every six months until the
security matures, which is when Treasury Department pays the par value. Bonds mature
in more than 10 years from their issue date. See id.
515 Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities (“TIPS”) pay interest every six months and the
principal value of TIPS is adjusted to reflect inflation or deflation as measured by
the Consumer Price Index. The semi-annual interest payments and maturity payment are
calculated based on the inflation-adjusted principal value of the security. See id.
516 See supra note 191.
517 A floating rate note security that has an interest payment that can change over time. As
interest rates rise, the security’s interest payments will increase. Similarly, as interest
171
and/or when-issued.
518 If the Government Securities ATS trades Agency Securities, it would be
required to indicate whether it trades Agency Mortgage-Backed Securities519 and/or Federal
Agency Securities.
520 In addition, if the Government Securities ATS trades repos, the ATS
would indicate whether it trades triparty521 and/or bilateral repos,522 and whether such securities
are repurchase agreements or reverse repurchase agreements and are centrally cleared523 or non-

rates fall, the security's interest payments will decrease. This security makes use of an
index (or reference) rate (in this case, tied to the most recent 13-week bill rate, prior to
the lockout period) and spread (determined at auction) to calculate an interest rate. The
index rate changes periodically, in this instance every week, causing the interest rate to
change or “float.” The notes may be of varying original maturities. See TreasuryDirect,
Frequently Asked Questions, available at
https://www.treasurydirect.gov/indiv/help/TDHelp/faq.htm.
518 A “when-issued” transaction is a transaction in a U.S. Treasury Security that is executed
before the issuance of the security.
519 Agency Mortgage-Backed Securities include (i) a type of securitized product issued in
conformity with a program of a U.S. executive agency, as defined in 5 U.S.C. 105 or a
government-sponsored enterprise, as defined in 2 U.S.C. 622(8), for which the timely
payment of principal and interest is guaranteed by the executive agency or GSE,
representing ownership interest in a pool (or pools) of mortgage loans structured to “pass
through” the principal and interest payments to the holders of the security on a pro rata
basis; and (ii) a type of securitized product backed by a securitized product described in
(i). See also FINRA Rules 6710(m), 6710(v), 6710(dd).
520 Federal Agency Securities include all Agency Securities except Agency MortgageBacked Securities. See supra note 519.
521 A triparty repo involves a third party, which is a clearing bank that provides support to
both parties in the trade by settling the repo on its books and ensuring that the details of
the repo agreement are met. See Viktoria Baklanova, Adam Copeland & Rebecca
McCaughrin, Federal Reserve Bank of New York Staff Reports, Reference Guide to U.S.
Repo and Securities Lending Markets (September 2015) at 5-6, 8-10, available at
https://www.newyorkfed.org/medialibrary/media/research/staff_reports/sr740.pdf (“New
York Fed Staff Report”).
522 A bilateral repo involves two parties agreeing on the terms of trade, including the
principal amount of the repo, the interest rate paid by the collateral provider, the type of
securities delivered, the haircut to be applied for the collateral pledged, and the maturity
of the repo, and each counterparty’s custodian bank clears and settles the trade. See New
York Fed Staff Report, supra note 521, at 5-7.
523 Centrally cleared would mean any transaction that uses a central counterparty, as defined
in 17 CFR 240.17Ad-22(a)(2) (Rule 17Ad-22(a)(2) under the Exchange Act).
172
centrally cleared.
524 If the Government Securities ATS trades any other government securities, it
would be required to mark “other” via checkbox and identify the types of government securities
that the ATS makes available for trading. Requiring a Covered ATS to publicly disclose the
types of securities that it trades would identify to potential subscribers and regulators the
securities that the ATS offers for trading and help potential subscribers decide whether they
would want to engage the ATS.
Proposed Part I, Items 9 and 10525 would require a Covered ATS to attach the most
recently filed or amended Schedule A of the broker-dealer operator’s Form BD disclosing
information related to direct owners and executive officers, and the most recently filed or
amended Schedule B of the broker-dealer operator’s Form BD disclosing information related to
indirect owners as Exhibits 1 and 2, respectively. In lieu of attaching those schedules, the
Covered ATS can indicate, via a checkbox, that the information under those schedules is
available on its website and is accurate as of the date of the filing of the Form ATS-N.526 The
Commission is proposing to include in Part I, Items 9 and 10 that, if the ATS selects to make the
information available on its website in lieu of attaching it to its filing, the ATS will maintain its
website in accordance with the rules for amending Form ATS-N pursuant to Rule 304(a)(2)(i) to

524 Non-centrally cleared would mean any transaction that does not use a central
counterparty, as defined in Rule 17Ad-22(a)(2) under the Exchange Act. See id.
525 These items are numbered as Part I, Items 8 and 9 in current Form ATS-N, but would be
renumbered as Items 9 and 10.
526 Part I, Items 9 and 10 and Part III, Item 25 (see infra Section IV.D.5.y) are the only
requests for information that would allow a Covered ATS to cross-reference to
information on the ATS’s website instead of providing it in the form disclosures. Form
ATS-N disclosures would be the vehicle for disseminating to the public information
about the operations of the ATS and the ATS-related activities of the broker-dealer
operator and its affiliates under Rule 304, which are required to be kept current, accurate,
and complete by the ATS. Accordingly, ATSs would be required to provide information
required by the form in the Form ATS-N disclosures and not cross-reference to other
sources.
173
reflect any changes to Schedule A or Schedule B, as applicable, to the Form BD of the brokerdealer operator. This would require an ATS checking the box to update its website as if it were
Form ATS-N, and therefore, to update the information no later than 30 calendar days after the
end of any calendar quarter in which its broker-dealer operator’s Schedule A or Schedule B of
Form BD becomes inaccurate or incomplete.
When an ATS is purchased by another entity and operated by a broker-dealer that is not
the ATS’s current broker-dealer operator, the new broker-dealer typically commences operating
the ATS using its personnel, processes, and procedures. To avoid disruptions to operations of
the ATS or its subscribers, the existing Covered ATS would file a Notice of Cessation at least 10
business days prior to the official change of broker-dealer operator (e.g., the date of closing for
an acquisition) pursuant to Rule 304(a)(3)527 and the new broker-dealer operator would file an
initial Form ATS-N in advance of the Notice of Cessation, which must become effective before
it may operate the Covered ATS pursuant to Rule 304(a)(1)(i).
528
In addition, Part I, Item 11 of Form ATS-N would require the Covered ATS, for filings
made pursuant to Rule 304(a)(2)(i) (i.e., Form ATS-N amendments), to attach as Exhibit 3 a
marked document to indicate changes to “yes” or “no” answers and additions or deletions from
any Item in Part I, Part II, and Part III, as applicable.529 The Commission is proposing to revise
Part I, Item 11 to state that the ATS must include in such marked document any changes to
Exhibits 1, 2, and 5. The requirement for the ATS to provide a marked document or “redline”

527 See supra note 455 and accompanying text.
528 See supra Section IV.A. To facilitate the review of the initial Form ATS-N for the new
Covered ATS, the broker-dealer operator for the new ATS may provide a draft initial
Form ATS-N to the staff for consideration.
529 This Item is currently numbered as Part I, Item 10, but would be renumbered as Item 11.
The Commission proposes to make a minor change to this Item to clarify that “II” refers
to Part II.
174
showing changes helps market participants and regulators easily review changes the ATS is
making in an amendment. The Commission is not proposing Form ATS-N to require a marked
document showing changes to Exhibit 4, which includes aggregate platform-wide order flow and
execution statistics of the ATS, because such statistics may frequently change, and showing such
changes could be burdensome for ATSs and would not be particularly useful for market
participants or regulators. However, the ATS should be required to provide a marked document
to show changes to the list and explanation of categories or metrics for such aggregate platformwide order flow and execution statistics on Exhibit 5, as highlighting such changes would be
useful for market participants in understanding any aggregate platform-wide order flow and
execution statistics the ATS provides. In addition, to ensure the changes in the marked
document are clear and readily identifiable, the Commission is proposing to clarify that the ATS
must indicate the Part and Item number for all Items that are changing.
Request for Comment
83. Should Covered ATSs be required to provide any additional identifying information on
Part I of Form ATS-N? Are the proposed information requests on Part I of Form ATS-N
necessary, or are certain information requests not necessary and why?
84. Should the Commission require Covered ATSs to provide types of securities that they
trade (or do not trade) in Part I, Item 8 of Form ATS-N? Would the proposed categories
and classifications of government securities in Part III, Item 8(b) be helpful to market
participants? What, if any, additional or alternative categories or classifications would
commenters suggest? Is there any other information about types of securities an ATS
trades that should be required by Form ATS-N?
4. Part II: Broker-Dealer Operator and its Affiliates Activities
The Commission believes that the disclosures on Form ATS-N about the conflicts of
interest that might arise from the business structures of the Covered ATS and the ATS-related
175
activities of the broker-dealer operator and its affiliates are designed to help participants protect
their interests when using the services of the ATS.530 As the Commission has previously stated,
the broker-dealer operator controls all aspects of the ATS’s operations and the broker-dealer
operator’s non-ATS and ATS functions may overlap.531 Currently, market participants have
limited information about conflicts of interest that might arise from the non-ATS activities of the
broker-dealer operator of a Government Securities ATS or a Communication Protocol System,
and different classes of participants may have different levels of information about the operations
of the ATS or the Communication Protocol System.
532 Because of potential overlap between a
broker-dealer’s ATS operations and its other operations, there is a risk of information leakage of
subscribers’ confidential trading information to other business units of the broker-dealer operator
or its affiliates. The Commission believes that some market participants would want to consider
the trading activity of the broker-dealer operator, or its affiliates, when evaluating potential
conflicts of interest on a Covered ATS and may also want to be aware of the range of services
and products that the broker-dealer operator or its affiliates offer for use in the ATS because such
services or products may have an impact on access to, or trading on, the ATS. In addition,
disclosures on Form ATS-N would better inform the Commission and other regulators about the
activities of Covered ATSs and their role in the government securities and NMS stock markets,
which would facilitate better oversight of these ATSs to the benefit of investors.
The Commission continues to believe that the interests of the broker-dealer operator or its
affiliates can sometimes compete against the interests of those that use the Covered ATS’s
services. These competing interests, at times, may give rise to conflicts of interest for the

530 See infra Section IV.D.4.
531 See NMS Stock ATS Proposing Release, supra note 29, at 81010, 81041.
532 See id. at 81010.
176
broker-dealer operator and its affiliates or the potential for information leakage of subscribers’
confidential trading information. For example, trading by the broker-dealer operator or its
affiliates on a Covered ATS controlled and operated by the broker-dealer operator presents a
conflict of interest whereby the broker-dealer operator has the opportunity to place its interest
ahead of participants trading in the ATS that the broker-dealer controls and operates. Part II of
Form ATS-N is designed to provide market participants with information about these competing
interests, and inform them about: (1) the operation of the Covered ATS — regardless of the
corporate structure of the ATS — and of its broker-dealer operator, or any arrangements the
broker-dealer operator may have made, whether contractual or otherwise, pertaining to the
operation of its ATS; and (2) ATS-related activities of the broker-dealer operator and its
affiliates that may give rise to conflicts of interest for the broker-dealer operator and its affiliates
or the potential for information leakage of subscribers’ confidential trading information. The
public disclosure about potential conflicts of interest on Covered ATSs would advance the same
policy and investor protection objectives.
Furthermore, Part II of Form ATS-N does not require public disclosure of activities or
affiliate relationships of the broker-dealer operator that do not relate to the Covered ATS. Many
broker-dealer operators of NMS Stock ATSs, and, to a lesser extent, Government Securities
ATSs, engage in broker-dealer or other activities that are unrelated to their operations of the
ATS. The Commission believes that Form ATS-N should exclude requests that would solicit
information about a broker-dealer operator’s activities unrelated to its ATS operations.
The Commission is proposing to use the same definitions of “affiliate” and “control” in
revised Form ATS-N as are used in current Form ATS-N.
533 These terms are intended to
 533 Form ATS-N would define “affiliate” as, with respect to a specified person, any person
that, directly or indirectly, controls, is under common control with, or is controlled by,
the specified person. “Control” would be defined to mean the power, directly or
177
encompass all relevant affiliate relationships between the broker-dealer operator and other
entities that the Commission believes would help market participants’ evaluation of potential
conflicts of interest.534
a. Items 1 and 2: Broker-Dealer Operator and its Affiliate Trading
Activities in the Covered ATS
Part II, Items 1(a) and 2(a) of Form ATS-N are designed to disclose information about
whether business units of the broker-dealer operator or its affiliates,535 respectively, are
permitted to enter or direct the entry of trading interest into the Covered ATS. If the person that
operates and controls a Covered ATS is also able to trade on that ATS, there may be an incentive
to design the operations of the ATS to favor the trading activity of the operator of the ATS or
affiliates of the operator. An operator of a Covered ATS that also trades in the ATS it operates
would likely have informational advantages over others trading in the ATS, such as a better
understanding of the manner in which the system operates or who is trading in the ATS. In the

indirectly, to direct the management or policies of the broker-dealer operator of an
alternative trading system, whether through ownership of securities, by contract, or
otherwise. In this proposal, the Commission is proposing to update the definition of
“person” for the purposes of Form ATS-N. A “person” is presumed to control the
broker-dealer operator of an alternative trading system if that person: is a director,
general partner, or officer exercising executive responsibility (or having similar status or
performing similar functions); directly or indirectly has the right to vote 25 percent or
more of a class of voting securities or has the power to sell or direct the sale of 25 percent
or more of a class of voting securities of the broker-dealer operator of the alternative
trading system; or in the case of a partnership, has contributed, or has the right to receive
upon dissolution, 25 percent or more of the capital of the broker-dealer operator of the
alternative trading system. See infra Section V.D.
534 See NMS Stock ATS Adopting Release, supra note 2, at 38818-19.
535 In Part II, Item 1(a), the Commission is proposing to delete examples of trading
interest—quotes, conditional orders, and indications of interest—as the proposed
definition of trading interest would encompass these examples.
178
most egregious case, the operator of the ATS might use the confidential trading information of
other traders to advantage its own trading on or off of the ATS.536
If a Covered ATS permits the broker-dealer operator or its affiliates to enter trading
interest in the ATS, whether on an agency, principal, or riskless principal basis, the ATS would
be required to only list the business units or affiliates that actually enter or direct the entry of
trading interest into the ATS. Part II, Items 1(a) and 2(a) of Form ATS-N would require the ATS
to list the business unit or affiliate if, for example, a trading desk of the broker-dealer operator or
an affiliate uses a direct connection to the ATS or algorithm to submit trading interest into the
ATS. Likewise, if an affiliated asset manager of the broker-dealer operator uses the services of a
third-party broker-dealer to direct trading interest to the ATS (i.e., the asset manager instructs the
third-party broker-dealer to send its trading interest to the ATS), the ATS would be required to
list that affiliated asset manager under Item 2(a). However, if that affiliated asset manager
submits trading interest to a third-party broker-dealer, and that third-party broker-dealer, using its
own discretion, directs the trading interest of the asset manager into the affiliated ATS, the ATS
would not be required to list the affiliated asset manager under Item 2(a); under such
circumstances, the affiliate would not be “directing” trading interest to the ATS because the
third-party broker-dealer is using its discretion to direct the affiliate’s trading interest.
Currently, Part II, Items 1(a) and 2(a) only require an NMS Stock ATS to list business
units or affiliates, respectively, that enter or direct the entry of orders and trading interest into the
ATS.537 Based on the Commission staff’s experience, some NMS Stock ATSs have opted to list
all of the internal business units and affiliates that could trade in the ATS and not only the

536 For a further discussion about how a conflict of interest related to trading by the brokerdealer operator on its own ATS could be harmful to other subscribers, see NMS Stock
ATS Adopting Release, supra note 2, at 38771, 38824-29.
537 As explained above, Form ATS-N will remove references to “orders,” and its disclosures
will focus on “trading interest.”
179
internal business units and affiliates that actively enter orders and trading interest into the ATS.
This additional information can also help market participants evaluate the types of potential
conflicts of interest on an NMS Stock ATS by providing the entire universe of potential contraside trading interest that users of the ATS might view as a conflict of interest. Accordingly,
while not required to do so, a Covered ATS would meet the respective requirements of Part II,
Items 1(a) and 2(a) by listing all of the internal business units and affiliates that could trade in the
ATS.
The Commission is proposing that Form ATS-N specify the types of information that a
Covered ATS must provide with regard to business units or affiliates of the broker-dealer
operator. Specifically, Item 1(a) would require the ATS to name and describe each type of
business unit of the broker-dealer operator that enters or directs the entry of trading interest into
the ATS (e.g., another Covered ATS, type of trading desks, market maker, sales or client desk)
and, for each business unit, to provide the applicable MPID and list the capacity of its trading
interest (e.g., principal, agency, riskless principal). Item 2(a) would require the Covered ATS to
name and describe each type of affiliate that enters or directs the entry of trading interest into the
ATS (e.g., broker-dealers, another Covered ATS, investment companies, hedge funds, market
makers, PTFs) and, for each of those affiliates, provide the applicable MPID and list the capacity
of its trading interest (e.g., principal, agency, riskless principal). The disclosures in Items 1(a)
and 2(a) would help market participants understand both the types of broker-dealer operator
business units and affiliates that can trade in a Covered ATS, and their trading activities.538

538 Although the narrative responses to Items 1(a) and 2(a) could typically be kept up-to-date
via updating amendments to Form ATS-N, the Commission also notes that in most cases,
if the “yes” or “no” response to Items 1(a) or 2(a) changes (e.g., the Covered ATS
changes its operations to allow affiliates to trade whereas they could not do so prior, or
vice versa), the ATS would be required to file a material amendment. See NMS Stock
ATS Adopting Release, supra note 2, at 38826.
180
In addition to what is required under current Form ATS-N, the Commission proposes to
add an additional disclosure request to Part II, Items 1(a) and 2(a) of Form ATS-N that would
require a Covered ATS to explain any circumstance when the broker-dealer operator or an
affiliate, respectively, would be a counterparty to an ATS trade. Based on Commission
experience, the broker-dealer operator may act as a counterparty to both sides of a trade to
maintain the anonymity of each counterparty or to facilitate clearance and settlement of the trade.
To the extent the broker-dealer operator or affiliate of the broker-dealer operator of a Covered
ATS intermediates between two counterparties, the ATS should publicly disclose to its
subscribers when and how it does so and the capacity of the broker-dealer operator or its
affiliates.539
Part II, Items 1(b) and 2(b) of Form ATS–N would require a Covered ATS to disclose
whether the services that the ATS offers and provides to the business units or affiliates required
to be identified in Item 1(a) and 2(a), respectively, are the same for all subscribers and persons
whose trading interest is entered into the ATS by a subscriber.
540 This request would be in the

539 Depending on how the Covered ATS operates, it is possible that disclosures about the
broker-dealer operator’s (or its affiliate’s) role as an intermediary between two other
counterparties would be required disclosures elsewhere on the Form ATS-N (e.g., Part
III, Item 7 (Order Types and Sizes; Trading Facilities), Part III, Item 21 (Post-Trade
Processing, Clearance, and Settlement)). Accordingly, the Commission is proposing that
this information would be required to be publicly disclosed in Part II. However, to
decrease redundancy in the form, the ATS could note in Part II, Item 1(a) and/or 2(a)
disclosures that the broker-dealer operator or its affiliates could be counterparties to a
trade, state the capacity in which broker-dealer operator or its affiliate is a counterparty to
the trade, and provide a more detailed responses to other requests for information as
required in the form.
540 The Commission is proposing to revise Part II, Items 1(b) and 2(b) to specifically ask
about treatment of persons whose trading interest is entered into the ATS by a subscriber
or the broker-dealer operator. In the Commission’s experience, ATS services could vary
among not only subscribers, but also non-subscriber participants to the ATS. The
Commission is therefore proposing to broaden the scope of these questions to apply to
differing treatment among non-subscriber participants whose trading interest is entered
into the ATS by a subscriber or the broker-dealer operator.
181
form of a “yes” or “no” question, and if the ATS answers “no,” it would be required to explain
any differences in response to the applicable Item number(s) in Part III of Form ATS–N and list
the applicable Item number(s). If there are differences that are not applicable to Part III of Form
ATS–N, the ATS must explain those differences in detail under Part II, Items 1 and 2.
Part II, Items 1(c) and 2(c) would require a Covered ATS to disclose the broker-dealer
operator’s or any of its affiliates’ role as a liquidity provider in the ATS, if applicable. These
Items would require the ATS to disclose – in the form of a “yes” or “no” response – whether
there are any formal or informal arrangements with any of the sources of trading interest of the
broker-dealer operator or affiliates identified in Item 1(a) and Item 2(a), respectively, to provide
trading interest to the ATS (e.g., undertaking to buy or sell continuously, or to meet specified
thresholds of trading or quoting activity). If the ATS answers “yes,” it must identify the business
unit(s) or affiliate(s) and respond to the Item with information about liquidity providers in the
ATS.541 Based on the Commission staff’s experience with Form ATS-N filed by NMS Stock
ATSs, highlighting whether the broker-dealer operator or affiliate acts as a liquidity provider on
a Covered ATS would help market participants evaluate the potential for conflicts of interest or
information leakage on the trading platform.
Finally, the Commission proposes to relocate the Part II, Items 1(d) and 2(d) disclosure
requests to proposed Part III, Item 16(c). Currently, these request an NMS Stock ATS to
disclose information about sending orders and trading interest to a trading center operated or
controlled by the broker-dealer operator or any of its affiliates, respectively in the form of a
“yes” or “no” question. The related narrative is currently required to be provided in Part III,
Item 16, which requires disclosures about external routing from the NMS Stock ATS. The
Commission continues to believe that this disclosure is important when evaluating potential

541 This request is contained in Part III, Item 12. See infra Section V.D.5.l.
182
conflicts of interest and how trading interest may be handled in the ATS. The Commission
originally included subpart (d) in Part II, Items 1 and 2 to highlight conflicts of interest related to
routing. The Commission believes that it would be more efficient for market participants and
filers to consolidate this disclosure with the responses to the request soliciting information about
the routing or sending of trading interest from the ATS. As such, the Commission is proposing
to delete Items 1(d) and 2(d) from Part II, and relocate the disclosure requirements therein to Part
III, Item 16(c).
Request for Comment
85. What information about trading by the broker-dealer operator and its affiliates related to
Government Securities ATSs is important to market participants? Are there any
additional relevant points of information about NMS Stock ATSs that Form ATS-N does
not solicit and should be asked?
86. Are there potential conflicts of interest for broker-dealer operators of Government
Securities ATSs or their affiliates that may justify greater operational transparency for
Government Securities ATSs than for NMS Stock ATSs, or vice versa?
87. Should the Commission require separate disclosures for different types of trading by the
broker-dealer operator on the Covered ATS, such as trading by the broker-dealer operator
for the purpose of correcting error trades executed in the ATS, as compared to other types
of principal trading? If so, what types of principal trading should be addressed separately
and why? What disclosures should the Commission require about principal trading and
why?
88. Should the Commission limit or expand in any way the proposed disclosure requirements
to require disclosure of arrangements regarding access by the broker-dealer operator or its
affiliates to both other trading venues and affiliates of those other trading venues?
183
89. Should the Commission require ATSs to provide information about when the brokerdealer or affiliate of the broker-dealer would be a counterparty to an ATS trade? What
type of information about such arrangements would be useful to market participants?
90. Form ATS-N currently requires that an NMS Stock ATS name the affiliate(s) of the
broker-dealer operator permitted to enter or direct the entry of trading interest into the
ATS. A Government Securities ATS would also be required to describe the type of
affiliates on Form ATS-N. Should the Commission continue to require NMS Stock
ATSs, but not Government Securities ATSs, to disclose the name(s) of affiliate(s) in
Form ATS-N?
91. Should the Commission require Covered ATSs to disclose the percentage of trading in
the ATS attributable to each or all of the broker-dealer operator’s business units, affiliates
or both? Should Form ATS-N require a Covered ATS to disclose specific trade volume
data for its trading with business units of the broker-dealer operator or its affiliates? If
so, how should that volume be measured (e.g., executed trades, dollar volume)?
92. Would the disclosure of information about trading by the broker-dealer operator and its
affiliates in the Covered ATS be sufficient to address potential conflicts of interest? If
disclosure alone is insufficient, are there other measures the Commission could take to
mitigate potential conflicts of interest regarding trading? Should the Commission
prohibit some or all trading by the broker-dealer operator and its affiliates in the ATS to
address potential conflicts of interest?
b. Item 3: Interaction of Trading Interest with Broker-Dealer Operator;
Affiliates
Proposed Part II, Item 3 of Form ATS-N is designed to solicit information about the
interaction of trading interest between unaffiliated subscribers to a Covered ATS and trading
interest of the broker-dealer operator and its affiliates in the ATS. As proposed, Part II, Item 3(a)
184
of Form ATS-N would require a Covered ATS to disclose whether a subscriber can opt out of
interacting with trading interest of the broker-dealer operator in the ATS, and Part II, Item 3(b)
would require the ATS to disclose whether a subscriber can opt out of interacting with the
trading interest of an affiliate of the broker-dealer operator in the ATS.542 Part II, Item 3(c) of
Form ATS-N would require the ATS to disclose whether the requirements543 of the opt-out
processes for the broker-dealer operator and affiliates required to be identified in Items 3(a) and
(b) are the same for all subscribers. Proposed Part II, Item 3 would be important to unaffiliated
market participants trading on an ATS because, given the potential for informational advantages
by the broker-dealer operator or its affiliates,544 some unaffiliated subscribers may not wish to
interact with the order flow of the broker-dealer operator or its affiliates. This disclosure could
also help subscribers understand whether and how they may avoid trading with the broker-dealer
operator and its affiliates should they elect to use the services of the Covered ATS.
Request for Comment
93. Should Form ATS-N request more or less information about how a market participant
can limit its interaction on a Covered ATS with the broker-dealer operator or its

542 For example, if a broker-dealer operator uses algorithms to submit subscriber orders into
the Covered ATS, any steps that either the broker-dealer operator or the subscriber needs
to take so that the ATS prevents those orders from trading with the broker-dealer operator
or its affiliates would be required disclosures under Items 3(a) and 3(b), respectively.
543 The Commission is proposing to replace the phrase “terms and conditions” with
“requirements.” In the Commission staff’s experience reviewing Form ATS-N and
discussing the requirements of the form with NMS Stock ATSs, the Commission has
observed that some NMS Stock ATSs have read “terms and conditions” to mean all legal
or contractual terms, rather than terms relevant to the scope of the question (i.e., what is
required for a subscriber to opt out). Using the term “requirements” will clarify that the
Item is soliciting information specifically related to requirements related to the opt-out
process. Substantively, the Commission does not believe that the proposed change would
change information that is being solicited in this Item.
544 See supra Section IV.D.3.a.
185
affiliates? If commenters believe Form ATS-N should request more information, please
provide specific information that would be useful along with an explanation of its utility.
c. Item 4: Arrangements with Other Trading Venues
Part II, Item 4 of Form ATS-N is designed to disclose information about formal or
informal arrangements (e.g., mutual, reciprocal, or preferential access arrangements)545 between
the broker-dealer operator or an affiliate of the broker-dealer operator and a trading venue (e.g.,
ATS, broker-dealer, exchange, OTC market maker, futures or options market) to access the ATS
services (e.g., arrangements to effect transactions or to submit, disseminate, or display orders and
trading interest in the ATS).
Part II, Item 4 would require a Covered ATS to disclose an arrangement between the
broker-dealer operator for the ATS or affiliate of the broker-dealer operator and a broker-dealer
operator of an unaffiliated ATS under which the broker-dealer operator would send trading
interest to the unaffiliated ATS for possible execution before sending it to any other destination.
Item 4 would also require disclosure of the inverse arrangement pursuant to which any subscriber
trading interest sent out of the unaffiliated Covered ATS would be sent first to the ATS before
any other trading venue. In addition, Item 4 would require a summary of the terms and
conditions of the arrangement such as, for example, whether the broker-dealer operator of the
Covered ATS is providing monetary compensation or some other brokerage service to the
unaffiliated ATS.546 If a broker-dealer operator has an arrangement with another trading venue

545 See NMS Stock ATS Adopting Release, supra note 2, at 38831 nn.769-70 and
accompanying text. As the Commission discussed in the NMS Stock ATS Adopting
Release, the disclosures required by Part II, Item 4 of revised Form ATS-N are not so
broad as to require the Covered ATS to list each unaffiliated subscriber that accesses its
system. See id. at 38831.
546 In addition, in Part II, Item 4(b) of Form ATS-N, the Commission is proposing to delete
the phrase “if yes to Item 4(a).” This phrase was included in Form ATS-N in error. The
186
operated by the broker-dealer operator or an affiliate, or an unaffiliated trading venue, market
participants are likely to consider information about such arrangements relevant to their
evaluation of an ATS as a potential trading venue and such an arrangement may raise concerns
about conflicts of interest or information leakage. The Commission is therefore proposing
disclosure of such arrangements in Part II, Item 4 of Form ATS-N.547
Request for Comment
94. What type of arrangements might a broker-dealer operator of a Covered ATS have with a
trading venue for government securities or repos? Please explain and describe what
information, if any, market participants may wish to know about such an arrangement.
d. Item 5: Other Products and Services
Part II, Item 5(a) is designed to disclose whether the broker-dealer operator offers any
products or services for the purpose of effecting transactions or submitting, disseminating, or
displaying trading interest in the Covered ATS (e.g., algorithmic trading products that send
orders to the ATS, order management or order execution systems, data feeds regarding orders
and trading interest in, or executions occurring on, the ATS, order hedging or aggregation

NMS Stock ATS would be required to respond to Part II, Item 4(b) regardless of its
response to Part II, Item 4(a).
547 In the NMS Stock ATS Adopting Release, the Commission provided examples of when
potential conflicts of interest and information leakage could occur as a result of
preferential routing arrangements (e.g., an affiliate is contractually obligated to route all
unexecuted orders to ATS) or routing arrangements with affiliates (e.g., all orders routed
by the NMS Stock ATS must first be routed to an the affiliate(s)). Specifically, the
former might result in information leakage should the arrangement provide that all orders
not executed by the affiliate are to be sent to the NMS Stock ATS and the latter could
provide incentive for the NMS Stock ATS to route orders to an affiliate instead of trying
to execute the order in the ATS. These issues could arise in the government securities
markets, as well, so those examples are also applicable to both NMS Stock ATSs and
Government Securities ATSs. See id. at 38831 n.771.
187
functionality, post-trade processing),548 and if applicable, to indicate whether the requirements of
use549 for these services or products required to be identified in Part II, Item 5(a) are the same for
all subscribers, persons whose trading interest is entered into the ATS by a subscriber or the
broker-dealer operator, and the broker-dealer operator.550
Customers of a broker-dealer operator could be both subscribers to its ATS and
customers of the broker-dealer operator and the broker-dealer operator may offer its customers
trading products and services in addition to its ATS services. In certain cases, the product or
service offered might be used by the customer in conjunction with the customer’s use of the
ATS. Broker-dealer operators may, directly or indirectly through an affiliate, offer products or
services for the purpose of, for example, submitting trading interest, or receiving information

548 In Part II, Item 5, the Commission is proposing to add “order hedging or aggregation
functionality” and “post-trade processing” as examples of products or services for the
purpose of effecting transactions or submitting, disseminating, or displaying trading
interest in a Covered ATS, and which could be particularly relevant to Government
Securities ATSs. “Order hedging or aggregation functionality” would include any
aggregation functionality that, for example, could be used by subscribers to interface with
the ATS to send or receive orders and trading interest to and from other markets,
including U.S. Treasury Securities markets, over-the-counter spot markets, or futures
markets. “Post-trade processing” would include any functionality that could be used by
subscribers in connection with post-trade processing to manage routing, enrichment,
allocations, matching, confirmation, affirmation, or notification of ATS trades.
549 The Commission is proposing to replace the phrase “terms and conditions” with the
phrase “requirements” throughout this Item. See note 543 and accompanying text. The
Commission is also proposing to require the Covered ATS to disclose any differences in
treatment as they apply to persons whose trading interest is entered into the ATS by a
subscriber or the broker-dealer operator. In the Commission staff’s experience, brokerdealer operators and their affiliates may, for example, disclose products and services
offered to customers of subscribers. See proposed revisions to Part II, Items 5(b) and
5(d).
550 For example, if a broker-dealer operator offers subscribers alternative algorithms to
handle orders, including sending such orders to the Covered ATS, and there is a
difference in the latency in which each of the alternatives transmits information, such
differences in latency would need to be disclosed in Part II, Item 5 of revised Form ATSN.
188
about displayed interest, in the ATS.551 The Commission is proposing to delete the term
“Subscribers” from Items 5(a) and 5(c) so that all products and services that the broker-dealer
operator or affiliate of the broker-dealer operator offers for the purpose of effecting transactions
or submitting, disseminating, or displaying trading interest in the ATS, would be required to be
disclosed on Form ATS-N, regardless of whether they are offered to subscribers or nonsubscribers (e.g., customers of ATS subscribers). For example, a Government Securities ATS
would be required to disclose any aggregation functionality that the broker-dealer operator or its
affiliate(s) offers, which, for example, could be used by subscribers to interface with the ATS to
send or receive trading interest to and from other markets, including U.S. Treasury Securities
markets, over-the-counter spot markets, or futures markets. The Commission believes that
participants would be interested in understanding the use of an aggregation functionality with the
ATS and how it can help achieve their trading strategies. If the broker-dealer operator or its
affiliate offered a product for effecting transactions or submitting, disseminating, or displaying
trading interest in the Government Securities ATS using related financial markets for nongovernment securities (e.g., futures, currencies, swaps, corporate bonds), the ATS could

551 See NMS Stock ATS Proposing Release, supra note 29, at 81048. See also NMS Stock
ATS Adopting Release, supra note 2, at 38832 n.779. For example, order hedging
functionalities could encompass a product or service offered by the broker-dealer
operator to a customer that the customer may use as a subscriber to the broker-dealer
operator’s ATS to hedge exposures of trading interest in or outside the ATS. A brokerdealer operator that offers such a functionality for use with the ATS would describe the
requirements for a subscriber to use the functionality in Part II, Item 5 and explain its use
with regard to the ATS in Part III of Form ATS-N. For example, if the order hedging
functionality affects order interaction in the ATS, the ATS would explain the
functionality in proposed Part III, Item 7. If the order hedging functionality involves
futures and trading interest in the ATS, the ATS would explain the related procedures
under proposed Part III, Item 11.
189
summarize the requirements for use of such a product in this Item and explain the product’s use
under proposed Part III, Item 11.552
The Commission believes the information required by Part II, Item 5 of revised Form
ATS-N is important because participants want to know the products or services that the brokerdealer operator or its affiliates may offer for the purpose of effecting transactions, or submitting,
disseminating, or displaying trading interest in the ATS because such products or services may
impact the participants’ access to, or trading on, the ATS.553 In some cases, if subscribers also
use other products or services that the broker-dealer operator offers, they could receive more
favorable terms from the broker-dealer operator with respect to their use of the ATS. For
example, if a participant purchases a service offered by the broker-dealer operator of a Covered
ATS, the broker-dealer operator might also provide that subscriber more favorable terms for its
use of the ATS than other participants who do not purchase the service. Such favorable terms
could include fee discounts or access to a faster connection line to the ATS. Additionally, a
broker-dealer operator of a Covered ATS may offer certain products and services only to certain
participants or may offer products and services on different terms to different categories of
participants. The Commission believes that participants would want to know, when assessing a
Covered ATS as a potential trading venue, the range of services or products that the brokerdealer operator or its affiliates offers participants of the ATS, and any differences in treatment
among participants, because such services or products may impact the participants’ access to, or
trading on, the ATS.

552 See infra Section IV.D.5.l.
553 Services for the purpose of effecting transactions, or submitting, disseminating, or
displaying trading interest in the ATS that are offered by a person other than the brokerdealer operator would also be responsive to this Item.
190
To the extent that a participant on a Covered ATS is offered use of products and services
by the broker-dealer operator or its affiliate for the purpose of effecting transactions or
submitting, disseminating, or displaying trading interest in the ATS, Part II, Item 5 of Form
ATS-N would require disclosures about those products or services. For example, if a brokerdealer operator offers its customers an order management system that can also be used by
participants to the ATS to manage orders in the ATS (e.g., adjust the pricing or size of trading
interest in relation to trading interest resting in or outside the ATS, or modify order instructions
to execute or cancel at a specified time or under certain market conditions), the ATS would be
required to identify the order management system, provide a summary of the requirements for its
use, and identify the Part and Item number in Form ATS-N where the order management system
is explained. In addition, any services offered by the broker-dealer operator for subscribers to
mitigate risk, such as limits on gross or net notional exposures by a subscriber, identification of
duplicative orders in the ATS, or other checks offered related to order entry or authorizations to
trade in the ATS, would be identified in this Item and explained further in proposed Part III,
Items 7(b) and 8(b), as applicable. However, the requests in Part II, Item 5 would not encompass
trading products or services offered by the broker-dealer operator to customers that are not for
the purpose of effecting transactions or submitting, disseminating, or displaying trading interest
in the ATS.
To alleviate any concerns regarding the potential disclosure of commercially sensitive
information in this disclosure request, the proposed disclosure request would require only a
summary of the requirements for the products and services disclosed and an explanation of how
the product or service is used with the ATS in the applicable Item number in Part III of Form
ATS-N. The Commission believes that requiring only a summary narrative would normally not
require the broker-dealer operator to disclose commercially sensitive information.
191
Request for Comment
95. What types of products and services do broker-dealer operators of Covered ATSs or
affiliates of broker-dealer operators offer to subscribers and how are such products and
services used in connection with the ATSs?
96. What information about the products and services offered by broker-dealer operators
would be helpful to market participants?
97. Should the Commission expand Part II, Item 5 of Form ATS-N to require disclosure of
products or services offered by the broker-dealer operator or its affiliates to subscribers,
but not necessarily offered in connection with transacting on the Covered ATS?
98. Would the information required by Part II, Item 5 require disclosure of commercially
sensitive information? If so, how could the Commission revise the information request to
limit the disclosure of commercially sensitive information?
e. Item 6: Activities of Service Providers
Part II, Item 6(a) of Form ATS-N is designed to provide disclosures relating to any entity,
other than the broker-dealer operator, that supports the services or functionalities of the Covered
ATS.554 Information about the roles and responsibilities of service providers to the ATS is
important because it could inform market participants about the potential for information leakage
on the ATS.555 The Commission is not proposing that the third-party service provider requests

554 As explained further below, the Commission is relocating the disclosure request about
shared employees in Part II, Item 6(a) of current Form ATS-N to Part II, Item 7(a) of
revised Form ATS-N. Accordingly, Part II, Item 6(a) of revised Form ATS-N
corresponds to Part II, Item 6(b) of current Form ATS-N.
555 Legacy Government Securities ATSs that operate pursuant to a Form ATS on file with
the Commission are currently subject to the disclosure requirement of Exhibit E of Form
ATS, which requires ATSs to disclose the name of any entity other than the ATS that will
be involved in the operation of the ATS, including the execution, trading, clearing, and
settling of transactions on behalf of the ATS; and to provide a description of the role and
responsibilities of each entity. See Item 7 of Form ATS (describing the requirements for
192
encompass purely administrative items, such as human resources support, or basic overhead
items, such as phone services and other utilities. As it is with Part II, Item 6(b) in current Form
ATS-N, the information solicited in this disclosure is meant to provide information about the
extent to which a third party may be able to influence or control the operations of the ATS
through involvement with its operations (such as operating the ATS’s proprietary data feeds sent
to subscribers) and allow the Commission to monitor the third party’s role and operations in the
ATS.
556 For example, any service provider for clearance and settlement of transactions in the
ATS, consulting relating to the trading systems or functionality, regulatory compliance, and
recordkeeping for the ATS would be responsive to this request.557
The Commission recognizes that an ATS may engage an entity other than the brokerdealer operator to perform an operation or function of the ATS or a subscriber may be directed to
use an entity to access a service of the ATS, such as order entry, disseminating market data, or
display, for example. In such instances, the ATS must ensure that the entity performing the ATS
function complies with Regulation ATS with respect to the ATS activities performed. For
example, with respect to an ATS that is subject to the Fair Access Rule, if participants are
required to enter orders in the ATS through an order entry firm or to access displayed orders

Exhibit E of Form ATS). Proposed Part II, Item 6(b) would expand upon this
requirement.
556 See Bloomberg Letter at 8 (stating, in response to the 2020 Proposal, that disclosure of
outsourced technology provider relationships is appropriate for the Commission and
FINRA to determine that the regulated entity, the broker-dealer operator, is monitoring its
third-party service provider(s)).
557 If a summary of the role and responsibilities of the service provider is disclosed in
response to Part III of Form ATS-N, the ATS need only list the applicable Item number
in response to this Item. If there are services or functionalities that are not applicable to
Part III, the ATS would identify the service provider, the services and functionalities, and
also provide a summary of the role and responsibilities of the service provider in
proposed Part II, Item 6(a).
193
from another entity, the ATS must ensure that its written fair access standards address these
entities’ activities because of the affect these entities’ activities can have on participants’ ability
to access the ATS services.
558 Likewise, to the extent an entity, such as a service provider,
performs a function of the ATS, and as a result has access to subscriber confidential trading
information, the ATS’s written safeguards and procedures to protect its subscribers’ confidential
trading information would also include the service provider’s safeguards and procedures to
protect the ATS’s subscriber confidential trading information that is accessible to the service
provider.559 In addition, as part of the ATS’s oversight procedures, the ATS must ensure that the
service provider, for example, follows the service provider’s safeguards and procedures to
protect the ATS’s subscriber confidential trading information.
Disclosures about the activities of service providers, for example, would inform the
Commission about the scope of the ATS’s operations and therefore the extent to which the
ATS’s Regulation ATS obligations would apply to the service provider’s activities. In addition,
as discussed above, the Commission will consider as part of its review of the Form ATS-N
whether the entity filing Form ATS-N, or entities involved in the operations of the ATS, meets
the definition of a Covered ATS, including whether the Covered ATS meets the criteria of
Exchange Act Rule 3b-16.560 The information provided on Form ATS-N about the role of
service providers with regard to the ATS’s operations would help inform the Commission’s
review.

558 See Regulation ATS Adopting Release, supra note 31, 63 FR 70873 n.252. See also infra
Section V.A.
559 In such a case, a description of the written safeguards and procedures to protect
subscribers’ confidential trading information of the ATS and service provider would be
required to be disclosed in Part II, Item 7 of Form ATS-N. See infra Section IV.D.4.f.
560 See supra note 109.
194
Furthermore, the requests under Part II, Items 6(b) through (c) would require disclosure
about whether any service providers or their affiliates use the services of the ATS. If they do, the
Covered ATS would be required to identify the service providers, the service(s) used, and
whether there is any disparate treatment between those service providers and other subscribers.
Thus, for example, a Covered ATS would only be required to obtain and disclose information
about third-party vendors and their affiliates that actively use the services of the ATS; the ATS
should be aware of all parties that use its services under its current recordkeeping obligations.
The Commission believes that market participants, when analyzing potential conflicts of interest
or information leakage, would find it very useful to understand whether potential counterparties
with whom they are trading, and who also service the operation of the ATS, have access to
different or unique ATS-related services. Part II, Item 6(c) of Form ATS-N would require the
Covered ATS to identify and explain any differences in ATS services to a service provider and
all other subscribers and persons whose trading interest is entered into the ATS by a subscriber
or the broker-dealer operator.
561 Additionally, depending on the role and responsibilities of the
service provider, market participants may wish to consider evaluating the robustness of the
ATS’s safeguards and procedures to protect confidential subscriber information.
This request for summary information is designed to provide market participants with a
general understanding of the types of technology or hardware provided by the service provider as
part of its responsibilities, and how that hardware or technology is used by the ATS. The
purpose of this disclosure is to provide information that subscribers can use to better understand
whether the service provider might be able to access subscriber confidential trading information,

561 The Commission is also proposing to require the Covered ATS to disclose any
differences in services as they apply to persons whose trading interest is entered into the
ATS by a subscriber or the broker-dealer operator (e.g., customers of subscribers). See
proposed revisions to Part II, Item 6(c).
195
so ATSs should draft their disclosure with the goal of conveying such information. Simply
stating that a third party provides technology or hardware to the ATS would not be responsive to
the required summary of the service provider’s role, but, on the other hand, the ATS would not
have to provide information about the manufacturer of its hardware components.
Request for Comment
99. Are there any critical services or functionalities (e.g., matching engine, market data) that,
if provided by a third party, should be required to be described in a higher level of detail
than the proposed “summary” level? If so, which services and functionalities?
f. Item 7: Protection of Confidential Trading Information
Part II, Item 7(a) of Form ATS-N is designed to provide information about a Covered
ATS’s written safeguards and written procedures to protect the confidential trading information
of subscribers to the ATS, including, (1) a summary of the roles and responsibilities of any
persons that have access to confidential trading information, the confidential trading information
that is accessible by them, the basis for the access, and whether any shared employees (defined
below) have access to confidential trading information; (2) written standards controlling
employees of the ATS that trade for employees’ accounts; and (3) written oversight procedures
to ensure that the safeguards and procedures described above are implemented and followed.
The protection of confidential trading information is an important component of the
regulation of ATSs and is essential to ensuring the integrity of ATSs as execution venues. The
Commission believes that disclosures about any employee of the ATS’s broker-dealer operator
or employee of its affiliate that provides services for both the operations of the ATS and any
other business unit or any affiliate of the broker-dealer operator (“shared employee”) with access
to subscriber confidential trading information would help market participants evaluate
circumstances when there is the potential for information leakage. For example, the Commission
believes that market participants would likely want to know if an employee of the broker-dealer
196
operator (or employee of an affiliate of the broker-dealer operator) that is responsible for the
operations of a system containing subscriber confidential trading information from the ATS is
also responsible for supporting, for instance, the principal trading activity of the broker-dealer
operator, or another trading venue operated by the broker-dealer, or a trading venue that is an
affiliate of the broker-dealer operator. In addition, if confidential trading information is not
protected, many of the advantages or purposes for which a subscriber may choose to send its
trading interest to an ATS (e.g., to trade anonymously and/or to mitigate the impact of trading in
large positions) are eliminated. In cases where the confidential trading information of a
subscriber is impermissibly shared with the personnel of the broker-dealer operator or any of its
affiliates, such an abuse is also compounded by the conflicting interests of the broker-dealer
operator. That is, in such a case, the broker-dealer operator has invited subscribers to trade on its
ATS and may have abused that relationship to provide itself or its affiliates with a direct
competitive advantage over that subscriber. Accordingly, the Commission believes that
disclosures informing market participants about broker-dealer operators’ written safeguards and
written procedures to protect confidential trading information are necessary so market
participants can independently evaluate the robustness of the safeguards and procedures and
decide for themselves whether they wish to do business with a particular Covered ATS.
Part II, Item 7(a) of revised Form ATS-N contains, in part, the same disclosure requests
as Part II, Item 7(a) of current Form ATS-N. The Commission is proposing to amend Part II,
Item 7(a) of Form ATS-N by adding the disclosure requests in Part II, Items 6(a) and 7(d) of
current Form ATS-N. Item 6(a) of current Form ATS-N solicits information about “shared
employees.” Part II, Item 7(d) of current Form ATS-N requires an ATS to provide a summary of
the roles and responsibilities of any persons that have access to confidential trading information,
the confidential trading information that is accessible by them, and the basis for the access.
197
The Commission is relocating and consolidating these disclosure requests based on its
experience with Form ATS-N filings by NMS Stock ATSs. In the Commission staff’s
experience, the disclosures in Part II, Items 6(a), 7(a), and 7(d) in current Form ATS-N solicit
similar information and thus, the structure of Form ATS-N often resulted in redundant
disclosures within these Items. For example, in responding to Part II, Item 7(d) of current Form
ATS-N, the ATS initially needs to describe what it considers to be confidential trading
information, such as whether only pre-trade order information would be considered confidential
trading information, or whether post-trade information would also be treated as confidential
trading information, and for what period of time. To explain the basis for the access, the ATS
currently needs to explain why the person would have access to the confidential trading
information in Part II, Item 7(d). Similarly, Part II, Item 6(a) of current Form ATS-N requires
the ATS to disclose whether and how shared employees can access confidential trading
information. The Commission believes that consolidating these information requests into a
single Item request in Part II, Item 7(a) on Form ATS-N would make the form easier to use
because the reader will be able to find all the information previously spread across three items in
a single item.
Part II, Items 7(b) and (c) of Form ATS-N are designed to disclose information about
whether a subscriber can consent and withdraw consent, respectively, to the disclosure of its
confidential trading information to any person (not including those employees of the ATS who
are operating the system or responsible for its compliance with applicable rules). Subscribers
should be able to give consent if they so choose to share their confidential trading information.562
Covered ATSs vary in terms of the types of orders, indications of interest (“IOIs”), or other
forms of trading interest that are confidential on their systems and what information about such

562 See Regulation ATS Adopting Release, supra note 31, at 70879.
198
trading interest may be shared. For example, an ATS might provide that no IOIs submitted by
subscribers will be considered confidential, but may provide subscribers with the option to
restrict the information in the IOI message to just the symbol and side (i.e., buy or sell). For this
example, Part II, Items 7(b) and 7(c) of Form ATS-N would require the Covered ATS to describe
the means by which a subscriber could control some of the information contained in the IOI
message by providing consent or withdrawing such consent for the sharing of its confidential
trading information.563 For example, a subscriber can consent to its open trading interest being
displayed to certain subscribers that the subscriber believes are less likely to misuse or exploit
such information, or that have open trading interest on the contra side in the same symbol. If the
Covered ATS allows subscribers to consent in this manner, the ATS would mark “yes” to Part II,
Item 7(b). Continuing the example, if the subscriber can subsequently withdraw its consent to
this display of its open trading interest, the Covered ATS would mark “yes” to Part II, Item 7(c).
Request for Comment – Part II
100. Should the Commission expand the proposed disclosures in proposed Part II, Item
7(a)(i) to other employees, personnel, or independent contractors of the broker-dealer
operator? If so, which employees, personnel, or independent contractors should be
included and what information about such persons should be solicited?
101. Should the Commission require Covered ATSs to disclose the information in Part II of
Form ATS-N? If so, what level of detail should be disclosed?

563 See id. The Commission believes that there may be some Covered ATSs that might not
offer any means by which a subscriber could consent to the dissemination of its
confidential trading information. A Covered ATS would be required to disclose this fact
pursuant to Item 7(a). See id. at 70891 n.437.
199
102. Would Part II of Form ATS-N capture the information that is most relevant to
understanding the Covered ATS and its relationship with the broker-dealer operator and
the broker-dealer operator’s affiliates? Please support your arguments.
103. Would the proposed disclosures in Part II require broker-dealer operators of Covered
ATSs to reveal too much (or not enough) information about their structure and
operations?
104. Is there other information about the activities of the broker-dealer operator and its
affiliates that market participants might find relevant or useful in their assessment or use
of the Covered ATS? If so, describe such information and explain whether or not such
information should be required to be provided on Form ATS-N.
105. Should Covered ATSs not be required to provide the proposed disclosures in Part II on
Form ATS-N due to concerns regarding confidentiality, business reasons, trade secrets,
burden, or any other concerns? If so, what information and why?
106. Are there ways to obtain the same information as would be required from Covered
ATSs by Part II other than through disclosure on Form ATS-N? If so, how else could
this information be obtained and would such alternative means be preferable to the
disclosures in Part II?
107. Should Covered ATSs be required to publicly disclose in their entirety on Form ATS-N
their written safeguards and written procedures to protect the confidential trading
information of subscribers? Should the Commission require less information be
disclosed about the written safeguards and procedures?
108. Would the information about written safeguards and written procedures to protect the
confidential trading information of subscribers described in Form ATS-N be sufficient
for subscribers to independently evaluate such safeguards and procedures and thus
evaluate the ATS as a destination for their orders? Should the Commission prohibit the
200
disclosure of confidential subscriber information in some circumstances? If so, please
describe.
5. Part III: Manner of Operations
Part III of Form ATS-N is designed to provide public disclosures to help market
participants understand, among other things, how they may use a Covered ATS to buy and sell
securities and find a counterparty to a trade. The Commission is proposing amendments to Part
III that would apply to both NMS Stock ATSs and Government Securities ATSs. Government
Securities ATSs would be required to respond to Part III of Form ATS-N in the same manner as
NMS Stock ATSs, and the below description summarizes the types of disclosures Form ATS-N
would solicit for both NMS Stock ATSs and Government Securities ATSs.
As proposed, Form ATS-N would include an instruction at the beginning of Part III to
require that the Covered ATS identify and explain any differences among and between
subscribers, persons whose trading interest is entered into the ATS by a subscriber or the brokerdealer operator, the broker-dealer operator, and any affiliates of the broker-dealer.564 Current
Form ATS-N is structured to include separate questions throughout the Items that require the
ATS to identify and explain any differences in the treatment of subscribers and the broker-dealer
operator. Based on its experience reviewing Form ATS-N filed by NMS Stock ATSs, the
Commission believes that discussion of these differences is integral to the responses to each of
the Items, and that requiring the discussion to be included in the response to each Item, rather
than requiring separate, potentially disjointed disclosures, would improve the readability of the

564 For example, in Part III, Item 5, if a Covered ATS designed its operations to allow only
certain types of subscribers to enter trading interest into the ATS through direct means
(e.g., Financial Information eXchange (“FIX”) protocol) and other types of subscribers to
enter trading interest into the ATS through indirect means (e.g., SOR or algorithm), the
ATS would describe these differences in means of entry in Part III, Item 5(a).
201
disclosures. By requiring Covered ATSs to disclose differences in treatment of persons whose
trading interest is entered into the ATS by a subscriber or the broker-dealer operator, which
would include, for example, sponsored access clients of subscribers, and affiliates of the brokerdealer operator, market participants will be able to discern any benefit or disadvantage they may
receive in comparison to a broader, more comprehensive group of potential users of the ATS.
565
The disclosure about differences in treatment of subscribers, other persons whose trading interest
is entered into the ATS by a subscriber or the broker-dealer operator, the broker-dealer operator,
and the broker-dealer operator’s affiliates is important to market participants and would better
allow them to decide whether submitting trading interest to the Covered ATS aligns with their
trading objectives. Accordingly, the Commission is proposing to restructure Part III to delete
separate questions regarding whether subscribers and the broker-dealer operator are treated the
same, and instead, proposing to include the instruction for the Covered ATS to disclose any
differences in treatment in the applicable responses to Part III. To be clear, this proposed change
would not relieve Covered ATSs from their obligation to disclose any differences in treatment
that were required to be disclosed in current Form ATS-N.
a. Item 1: Types of ATS Subscribers
Part III, Item 1 of Form ATS-N is designed to provide information on the type(s) of
subscribers that can use the Covered ATS services. The Item would provide market participants
with information about the type of trading interest in the Covered ATS based on the types of
subscribers that use it. Covered ATSs may design their system for trading by retail investors,
institutional investors, dealers, or any other type of market participant.

565 See current Form ATS-N Part III, Items 2(c), 3(b), 4(b), 5(b), 5(d), 6(b), 6(d), 6(f), 7(b),
8(b), 8(d), 8(f), 9(b), 10(b), 10(d), 11(b), 11(d), 13(b), 13(e), 14(b), 15(c), 17(b), 18(c),
19(b), 21(b), 22(b), and 23(b). The Commission is proposing to delete these Items for
Form ATS-N and re-number Items throughout Part III.
202
The Commission is proposing to revise the list of types of market participants in Part III,
Item 1 of Form ATS-N that, in the Commission staff’s experience, are commonly used for
Government Securities ATSs and NMS Stock ATSs.
566 The list would include: retail investors,
issuers, asset managers, brokers, dealers, investment companies, hedge funds, market makers,
PTFs, insurance companies, pension funds, corporations, and banks. The list is non-exhaustive
and a Covered ATS would be required to list any type of subscriber that can use the ATS’s
services.567 In addition to disclosing its subscribers, a Covered ATS may use Part III, Item 1 to
disclose any types of participants whose trading interest may reach the ATS. For example, for an
ATS that only allows brokers or dealers as subscribers, the ATS could identify the types of
customers from which the brokers or dealers send trading interest to the ATS.
Request for Comment
109. Should Form ATS-N require a Covered ATS to include information about the types of
subscribers to the ATS? Based on Commission staff experience, some ATSs only accept
broker-dealers as subscribers to the ATS and various types of market participants send
trading interest into the ATS through the broker-dealer subscriber. Should the
Commission require the identification of the types of market participants whose trading
interest may be sent to the ATS, whether directly or indirectly, by a broker-dealer

566 In Part III, Item 1 of Form ATS-N, the Commission is modifying the checkboxes listing
types of subscribers to add insurance companies, pension funds, and corporations. The
Commission believes that adding these checkboxes will provide more granular
information on the types of subscribers participating on an ATS in an easier-to-read
format. The Commission is also proposing to remove the checkbox “NMS Stock ATS”
under the list of types of subscriber in Form ATS-N. A broker-dealer operator of an
NMS Stock ATS seeking to access another NMS Stock ATS would involve the brokerdealer operator for the NMS Stock ATS becoming a subscriber to the ATS, not the ATS
that the broker-dealer operates. In this scenario, an NMS Stock ATS that accepts a
broker-dealer operator for another NMS Stock ATS would mark the checkbox for broker
and/or dealer in Part III, Item 1 on Form ATS-N as appropriate.
567 See NMS Stock ATS Adopting Release, supra note 2, at 38820-21 (discussing the
definition of “subscriber” and the persons encompassed thereunder).
203
subscriber to a Covered ATS? Would this information be useful to understanding the
type of trading interest in the ATS?
110. Should the Commission add any other categories of subscribers commonly applicable to
Government Securities ATSs or NMS Stock ATSs, or both, to Form ATS-N?
b. Item 2: Eligibility for ATS Services
Part III, Item 2 of Form ATS-N is designed to provide market participants with
information about whether the Covered ATS requires subscribers to be registered broker-dealers
or enter a written agreement to use the ATS services, and whether there are any conditions that
the ATS requires a person to satisfy before accessing the ATS services.568 This Item would
require disclosure of the conditions a person must satisfy “before accessing the ATS services”
(emphasis added). On the other hand, Part III, Item 3 of Form ATS-N (discussed infra), would
require disclosures about any conditions that would exclude a subscriber, in whole or in part,
from using the Covered ATS as a result of subscriber behavior while already actively
participating in the ATS.569
The disclosures required by Part III, Item 2 would allow market participants to
understand the conditions that they would need to satisfy to participate on the Covered ATS. If
the Covered ATS indicates that it does have conditions that a person must satisfy before
accessing the ATS services, the request would require the ATS to list and provide a “summary”

568 In Part III, Item 2(b), the Commission is proposing to delete the word “other” and ask
whether there any conditions, rather than any “other” conditions, that the ATS requires a
person to satisfy before accessing the ATS services. The Commission believes it would
be accurate to use the phrase “any conditions” rather than “any other conditions” in
circumstances where a Covered ATS indicates that the ATS does not require subscribers
to be registered broker-dealers in Part III, Item 2(a).
569 For example, if a Covered ATS has a practice of excluding subscribers that do not meet
certain percentage thresholds for submitting firm-up orders in response to receiving an
IOI, conditional order, or RFQ sent to them by the ATS, then this practice would be
subject to disclosure under Part III, Item 3 of Form ATS-N (“Exclusion from ATS
Services”) and not Part III, Item 2 (“Eligibility for ATS Services”).
204
of those conditions. Some Covered ATSs may only have the eligibility requirement that a person
be a client of the broker-dealer operator. In that case, any eligibility requirements to become a
client of the broker-dealer operator would be responsive to this Item. For example, if a
subscriber must be a customer of the broker-dealer operator, the Covered ATS would provide a
summary of conditions the subscriber, as a customer, would need to satisfy (e.g., know your
customer) before its trading interest can be entered into the ATS. If the Covered ATS requires
subscribers to contract with or become a member of a third party, for example, for purposes of
clearance and settlement, such as, for Government Securities ATSs, the Fixed Income Clearing
Corporation’s Government Securities Division, such information would be responsive.
Request for Comment
111. What eligibility requirements to access a Covered ATS are important to a potential
subscriber or participant to the ATS and why? Are there any eligibility requirements that
are particularly relevant to Government Securities ATSs (inclusive of Communication
Protocol Systems, as proposed) or Communication Protocol Systems that trade NMS
stock that should also be required to be disclosed on Form ATS-N?
c. Item 3: Exclusion from ATS Services
Based on Commission staff’s experience, ATSs often disclose rules governing
subscribers’ participation in the ATS, and if a subscriber fails to comply with these rules, the
ATS may limit or deny access to the ATS.570 Part III, Item 3 of Form ATS-N would require
information about whether a Covered ATS can exclude, in whole or in part, any subscriber from
the ATS services, and if so, to list and provide a summary of the conditions for excluding (or

570 These limitations can result in some subscribers having different levels of functionality or
more favorable terms of access than others. For example, in the Commission staff’s
experience, some ATSs exclude subscribers that frequently fail to respond with a firm-up
order after receiving an IOI or request for quote.
205
limiting) a subscriber from using the ATS. The disclosures are designed to provide information
about when the Covered ATS can exclude, in whole or in part, a subscriber from the services of
the ATSs and help subscribers reasonably anticipate the types of activities that may cause them
to be excluded (or limited) from using the services of the ATS. The question, which allows
Covered ATSs to provide a “summary” of conditions for excluding (or limiting) a subscriber, is
designed to solicit information to alert subscribers about the types of activities that may cause
them to be excluded (or limited) from using the services of the ATS while protecting sensitive
information to allow the ATS to reasonably control the activities and quality of flow on its
platform and prevent subscribers from using the disclosures to potentially misuse or game the
system. To the extent that the ATS monitors and surveils trading activity on the ATS that could
result in excluding subscribers from ATS services, to avoid duplicative disclosures, the response
to this Item could reference the monitoring and surveillance practices described in response to
Part III, Item 9.571
Request for Comment
112. Is there any subscriber behavior for which Covered ATSs, particularly Government
Securities ATSs (inclusive of Communication Protocol Systems, as proposed) or
Communication Protocol Systems that trade NMS stock, commonly exclude a subscriber
in whole or in part? What is that behavior(s) and what form of exclusion is commonly
employed (e.g., disqualification from ATS, limitation of services)?
d. Item 4: Hours of Operations and Trading Outside of Regular Trading
Hours
Part III, Item 4 is intended to provide market participants with information about the days
and hours of operation of the Covered ATS, including the times when trading interest can be

571 See infra Section IV.D.5.i.
206
entered in the ATS, and ATS services available outside of the ATS’s regular trading hours. Part
III, Item 4(a) would require a Covered ATS to provide the hours when it is operating, which
would include functions such as accepting trading interest or allowing participants to use
communication protocols to message other participants.
572 The disclosure required is not limited
to only those hours when the ATS matches trading interest or allows participants to submit
trading interest.
The Commission is proposing to revise Part III, Item 4 to include as Part III, Item 4(b) a
question about whether the ATS services are available outside of the ATS’s regular trading hours
(e.g., after-hours trading) and with respect to services available outside of the ATS’s regular
trading hours, whether there are any differences between the services during the ATS’s regular
trading hours and outside of the ATS’s regular hours. Part III, Item 4(a) of current Form ATS-N
asks about hours of operations outside of regular trading hours, and Part III, Item 18 of current
Form ATS-N asks about whether the ATS conducts trading outside of regular trading hours, and
whether there are any differences between trading outside regular trading hours and trading
during regular trading hours. The Commission is proposing to streamline and combine the
current questions, and, recognizing that ATSs, including Communication Protocol Systems, may
provide other services beyond “conduct[ing] trading,” to ask about ATS services available
outside of the ATS’s regular trading hours. The Commission believes that it is important for
market participants and the Commission to understand when a Covered ATS operates, when
trading interest can be entered, including when the ATS will accept trading interest outside of its
regular trading hours, and whether any other ATS services are available outside the ATS’s
regular hours of operations.

572 The Commission is proposing to make minor changes to this Item in Form ATS-N to
replace “operation” with “operations” and to clarify that “regular trading hours” refers to
the ATS’s regular trading hours.
207
To the extent that there are differences with respect to any services the Covered ATS
provides during and outside of its regular trading hours, the Covered ATS must describe those
differences. Similar to Item 17 (requesting differences between any closing session(s) and
regular trading hours), a Covered ATS would be required to disclose differences between trading
outside of its regular trading hours and during regular trading hours with respect to the relevant
information disclosed in Part III Items, including, among others, order types and sizes, and
trading facilities (Item 7), use of non-firm trading interest, and communication protocols and
negotiation functionality (Item 8), segmentation and notice (Item 13), and display and visibility
of trading interest (Item 15). Many of the disclosures discussed elsewhere in Form ATS-N will
relate to the ATS’s regular trading hours so the ATS can simply discuss any differences between
trading during its regular hours and trading outside its regular trading hours in Part III, Item 4(c),
if applicable.
e. Item 5: Means of Entry
Part III, Item 5 of Form ATS-N is intended to disclose the means that can be used to
directly enter trading interest into the Covered ATS and any other means of entering trading
interest into the ATS (e.g., smart order router, algorithm, order management system, sales desk,
direct market access, web-enabled system, or aggregation functionality). The Commission is
proposing to revise Part III, Item 5 of Form ATS-N to include examples of means of entry that it
believes may be relevant to Government Securities ATSs, as well as Communication Protocol
Systems. These examples, which are not exhaustive, would include direct market access, webenabled systems, and aggregation functionalities. Part III, Item 5 of Form ATS-N would require
the Covered ATS to identify and explain means of entering trading interest, including whether
the means are provided through the broker-dealer operator itself, through a third-party
contracting with the broker-dealer operator, or through an affiliate of the broker-dealer
208
operator,573 and list and provide a summary of the requirements574 for entering trading interest
into the ATS through these means.
Based on Commission staff experience, trading interest may be submitted into the
Covered ATS both directly and indirectly. A direct method of sending trading interest to an
ATS, for example, may include the use of a direct market access platform or FIX protocol
connection, which allows subscribers to enter trading interest into the ATS without an
intermediary. An example of an indirect method of submitting trading interest to an ATS could
include the use of a smart order router (“SOR”), algorithm or similar functionality, website,
graphical user interface (“GUI”), aggregation interface, or front-end system. The means of entry
into an ATS (e.g., direct or indirect) could impact the speed with which a subscriber’s trading
interest is handled and potentially executed and could increase the risk of information leakage.
Today, the government securities markets are not interconnected markets like those for NMS
stocks and therefore SOR technology may not be applied in the same manner by broker-dealer
operators of Government Securities ATSs as it may for broker-dealer operators of NMS Stock
ATSs. The Commission believes, however, that similar functionality may be used to send or

573 In Part III, Item 5(b), the Commission is proposing to make a minor revision to this Item
and change the word “indicate” to “including,” so the Covered ATSs would identify and
explain the means for entering trading interest, “including” who provides the means,
rather than identify and explain the means for entering trading interest and “indicate”
who provides the means. The Commission believes identifying and explaining the means
for entering trading interest encompasses describing who is providing the means of entry,
and for that reason, this revision would clarify what information this Item is requesting.
The Commission is also proposing to add clarifying text to Part III, Item 5(b) of Form
ATS-N (renumbered from Part III, Item 5(c) of current Form ATS-N) to more clearly
contrast such question from Part III, Item 5(a). The question would read whether there
are “means of entering trading interest into the ATS not otherwise disclosed in Part III,
Item 5(a)” rather than asking whether there are any “other means for entering orders and
trading interest into the NMS Stock ATS.”
574 Current Form ATS-N requires a summary of the “terms and conditions” for entering
orders or trading interest into the ATS through these means. The Commission is
proposing to revise the question to require a summary of the “requirements” for entering
trading interest in the ATS. See supra note 543 and accompanying text.
209
receive trading interest to and from a Government Securities ATS to reduce latency or send
trading interest to markets with better prices for certain government securities, and to the extent
it does, the ATS should be required to provide information about that functionality as required.
The Commission believes that the disclosures regarding the direct or indirect means of
trading interest entry would inform market participants about the functionalities that their trading
interest pass through on their way to the ATS and help them assess any potential advantages that
trading interest sent through the broker-dealer operator may have as opposed to other methods
used by other subscribers. A Covered ATS would be required to identify the functionality that
directly connects to the ATS (e.g., algorithm, GUI, aggregation interface) and, if present, any
intermediate functionality that trading interest passes through on its way to the functionality that
directly connects to the ATS.575 Conversely, if ATS trading interest submitted through an
algorithm is sent to another intermediate functionality, and then submitted to the ATS by that
functionality, such information would need to be disclosed pursuant to this Item.576
The proposed disclosure requirements would only require the Covered ATS to “list and
provide a summary of the requirements for entering trading interest into the ATS” through these
sources. Therefore, the Covered ATS would not need to provide a detailed description of the
programming of the indirect means for entering trading interest that could put the ATS at a

575 If an intermediate application or functionality has access to information related to a
subscriber’s trading interest, the Covered ATS must take appropriate measures to protect
the confidentiality of such information pursuant to Rule 301(b)(10) of Regulation ATS.
If the ATS arranges for an intermediate application to be provided by another party, the
Covered ATS’s obligations under Rule 301(b)(10) would apply to the activities that that
party is performing for the ATS and the ATS’s written safeguards and procedures should
be designed to protect subscriber confidential trading information with regard to that
party.
576 If a broker-dealer operator permits subscribers to send trading interest to the ATS by
excluding all other trading venues from where such trading interest could be sent, this
procedure in effect allows a subscriber to direct an order to the ATS and would be
responsive to Part III, Item 5.
210
competitive disadvantage with competitors. However, if, for example, an ATS “throttled” the
number of messages allowed for a given type of connection, that information would be
responsive to this Item.
 Although the Commission is proposing to delete Part III, Items 5(b) and 5(d) of current
Form ATS-N, which asks the Covered ATS to disclose whether the protocols required to be
identified in Part III, Item 5 and the requirements for any means of entry are the same for all
subscribers and the broker-dealer operator, a Covered ATS would be required to disclose such
differences in Part III, Item 5 pursuant to the proposed instruction in Part III in Form ATS-N.577
For example, a Covered ATS would be required to disclose any differences in the latency of the
alternative means for entering trading interest into the ATS. The Commission understands that
there might be different latencies associated with each alternative. For instance, in some cases, a
direct connection to the ATS may have reduced latencies as compared to indirect means where
trading interest passes through an intermediate functionality. A broker-dealer operator could
also, for example, configure the ATS to provide reduced latencies for certain means of entry
used by itself or its affiliates.578
The Commission also believes that it is important for subscribers to understand if a
means of entry is provided by an affiliate, even if it does not provide an advantage to a particular
entity.
Disclosures about a broker-dealer operator’s use of its or an affiliate’s direct or indirect
functionality to enter trading interest into the Covered ATS are important to market participants
to allow them to assess the potential for information leakage. The indirect means of access (e.g.,
SOR or algorithm) may obtain information about subscriber trading interest that is sent to the

577 See supra note 564 and accompanying text.
578 Covered ATSs would not be required to calculate and disclose precise latencies for each
means of entry for purposes of Form ATS-N.
211
ATS (and may now be resting in the ATS) and subscriber trading interest that is sent out of the
ATS. The potential that an indirect means of accessing the Covered ATS could lead to leakage
of subscribers’ confidential trading information necessitates disclosure of certain information
about the use of such indirect means to send subscriber trading interest in or out of the ATS. In
addition, there may be instances where an ATS uses an intermediate functionality or entity as the
means to bring together buyers and sellers or provide established methods (such as providing
means to enter, display, communicate, or execute trading interest) and that intermediate
functionality or entity would be considered part of the ATS for purposes of Regulation ATS and
Form ATS-N.579 For example, if the broker-dealer operator arranges for trading interest to be
entered into the ATS by another party, the activities of that party with respect to the ATS would
be subject to the disclosure requirements of Form ATS-N. Likewise, if an ATS is subject to the
Fair Access Rule under Regulation ATS and its participants must use an entity other than the
broker-dealer operator to enter or receive information about trading interest in the ATS, the ATS
must establish reasonable written standards governing the granting, denial, or limitation of access
to ensure that those participants are not treated in an unfair and unreasonably discriminatory
manner by the entity.
580

579 See NMS Stock ATS Adopting Release, supra note 2, at 38832 and 38844. Depending
on the activities of the persons involved with the market place, a group of persons can
together provide, constitute, or maintain a market place or facilities for bringing together
purchasers and sellers of securities and together meet the definition of exchange. In such
a case, the group of persons would have the regulatory responsibility for the exchange.
580 See Regulation ATS Adopting Release, supra note 31, at 70873. See infra Section
V.A.3.a.
212
Request for Comment
113. Are there any means of entering trading interest into the Covered ATS where more or
should be required to explain their operation? Are there any aspects of those means of
entry that are particularly important?
f. Item 6: Connectivity and Co-location
Part III, Item 6(a) of Form ATS-N would request information about whether the Covered
ATS offers co-location and related services, and if so, would require a summary of the
requirements for use of such services, including the speed and connection (e.g., fiber, copper)
options offered. Part III, Item 6(b) of Form ATS-N581 would require a Covered ATS to indicate
whether it provides any other means besides co-location and related services described in the
Item 6(a) to increase the speed of communication with the ATS, and if so, to explain the means
and provide a summary of the requirements for its use. Part III, Item 6(c) would require the
Covered ATS to indicate whether it offers any means to reduce the speed of communication with
the ATS and if so, to provide a summary of the requirements for its use.582
Latency is an important feature of trading in certain government securities and NMS
stocks, and market participants are interested in understanding the functionalities employed by
Covered ATSs to influence it.583 The Item would require a summary of the requirements where

581 The Commission is proposing to re-number Part III, Item 6(c) of current Form ATS-N to
Item 6(b) and Part III, Item 6(e) of current Form ATS-N to Part III, Item 6(c).
582 To clarify that the Commission is soliciting information about any requirements the ATS
imposes on subscribers or persons that submit trading interest to use co-location, related
services, and other means to increase or reduce the speed of communication with the
ATS, rather than the legal or contractual terms of such services, the Commission is
proposing to replace the current requirement for a summary of the “terms and conditions”
with “requirements for use” for such services in Part III, Items 6(a), 6(b), and 6(c). See
supra note 543.
583 See October 15 Staff Report, supra note 188, at 36-37; Treasury Request for Information,
supra note 193, at 3928. See also Letter from Dan Cleaves, Chief Executive Officer,
BrokerTec Americas, and Jerald Irving, President, ICAP Securities USA LLC, to David
213
a trading venue employs mechanisms to increase the latency or the length of time for trading
interest or other information to travel from a user to the system. Users of co-location services
can experience faster or slower connection speeds to a Covered ATS depending on factors such
as the distance of the customer servers from the matching engine, or the use or non-use of
“coiling” to its matching engine to equalize connection speeds among subscribers, among others.
Such differences in connection speed or latency would be required to be disclosed under Part III,
Item 6. If, for example, the ATS offers means that would allow certain subscribers a competitive
advantage, then the ATS should disclose such means on the Form ATS-N. The Commission
believes that the information disclosed in Item 6 would help market participants understand their
connectivity options to the ATS and expedite the order entry process for subscribers.
Request for Comment
114. Are there any aspects of the means for increasing or reducing the speed of
communication with Covered ATSs that the Commission should specifically require
under this Item?
g. Item 7: Order Types and Sizes; Trading Facilities
Part III, Item 7 of Form ATS-N is designed to disclose whether the Covered ATS
provides trading facilities or sets rules for bringing together orders of buyers and sellers (e.g.,
crossing system, auction market, limit order matching book, click-to-trade functionality). The
request is intended to capture Covered ATSs that offer the use of firm trading interest and a

R. Pearl, Office of the Executive Secretary, Treasury Department, dated April 22, 2016
(“BrokerTec/ICAP Letter”), at 3-4, available at
https://www.treasurydirect.gov/instit/statreg/gsareg/ICAPTreasuryRFILetter.pdf; Letter
from C. Thomas Richardson, Managing Director, Head of Electronic Trading Service,
Wells Fargo Securities, and Cronin McTigue, Managing Director, Head of Liquid
Products, Wells Fargo Securities, to Treasury Department, dated April 21, 2016, at 6-7,
available at
https://www.treasurydirect.gov/instit/statreg/gsareg/RFIcommentWellsFargo.pdf.
214
trading facility or rules for buyers and sellers to interact and agree upon the terms of a trade. The
Commission believes that systems that typically offer the use of orders and trading facilities and
systems that offer the use of non-firm trading interest and communication protocols operate
distinctively. Systems that offer the use of orders and trading facilities typically match orders of
buyers and sellers pursuant to pre-determined rules programmed into an algorithm, while
systems that offer the use of trading interest and communication protocols allow buyers and
sellers to interact directly to find a counterparty and negotiate a trade. To facilitate market
participants’ understanding of these systems and their unique aspects, the Commission is
proposing that Covered ATSs disclose information about the use of orders and trading facilities
or rules in Part III, Item 7 and disclose the use of trading interest and communication protocols in
Part III, Item 8. These questions would apply to both NMS Stock ATSs and Government
Securities ATSs. If a Covered ATS provides both a trading facility and communication protocol
(e.g., provides both a limit order book and RFQ protocol), the Covered ATS would respond
affirmatively to and explain the protocols separately under Items 7 and 8. To the extent the
trading facility and Communication Protocol Systems interact in any way, the Covered ATS
would explain that interaction in response to each question.
A Covered ATS that answers affirmatively to Part III, Item 7 of revised Form ATS-N
would be required to explain the trading facilities and rules for bringing together the orders of
buyers and sellers in the ATS. In this response, the ATS would be expected to disclose the
information responsive to Part III, Items 7 (Order Types and Attributes), 8 (Order Sizes), and 11
(Trading Services, Facilities, and Rules) of current Form ATS-N. Based on Commission staff
experience reviewing Form ATS-N filings, and particularly disclosures related to order types,
order size, and the ATSs’ rules, procedures, and facilities to bring buyers and sellers together,
ATS are linked and intertwined. Allowing the Covered ATS to provide a narrative of these
topics together in Part III, Item 7 of Form ATS-N would provide for more streamlined
215
disclosures for market participants to understand and reduce redundancy. This proposed change
would result in clearer, more readable narrative disclosures, and potentially reduce the burden to
Covered ATSs of drafting repetitive disclosures in multiple responses in the form.
Part III, Item 7 of Form ATS-N would require that ATSs provide a description of each
order type offered by the Covered ATS, and provide a list of items that the ATS should include
in its description. To provide transparency to market participants, the Item would require a
complete and detailed description of the order types available on the Covered ATS, their
characteristics, operations, and how they are handled.584 All market participants should have full
information about the operations of order types available on a Covered ATS to comprehensively
understand how their orders will be handled and executed in the ATS. Order types are a primary
means by which users of a Covered ATS communicate their instructions to trade on an ATS.
Given the importance, diversity, and complexity of order types, the Commission is proposing to
require Covered ATSs to disclose the information called for by Part III, Item 7 on Form ATS-N.
Market participants should have sufficient information about all aspects of the operations
of order types available on a Covered ATS to understand how to use order types to achieve their
trading objectives, as well as to understand how order types used by other market participants
could affect their trading interest. A detailed description of order type characteristics would
assist subscribers in better understanding how their orders would interact with other trading
interest in the ATS. It also would allow market participants to see what order types could be
 584 In the instruction to Part III, Item 7 of Form ATS-N, the Commission is proposing to
make certain changes and clarify the examples provided in this Item regarding order
types. Particularly, the Commission proposes to clarify the example provided regarding
“how price conditions affect the rank and price at which it can be executed” by replacing
“it” with “the order type.” In addition, the Commission is proposing to add “store
orders” as an example of order types designed not to remove liquidity. The Commission
recognizes that “store orders” may be more relevant to Government Securities ATSs than
to NMS Stock ATSs.
216
used by other market participants, which could affect the probability, timing, and quality of their
own executions. For example, if the time priority of a pegged order changes in response to
changes in the reference price, that would affect the likelihood of execution for such an order.
The Commission is also proposing to require that Covered ATSs disclose any order size
requirements (e.g., minimum or maximum size, odd-lot, mixed-lot, trading increments) and
related handling procedures (e.g., handling of residual trading interest) in Part III, Item 7 of Form
ATS-N. This incorporates the requirements of Part III, Item 8 of current Form ATS-N, with
modifications.585 This information would inform subscribers about the permissible size of orders
and trading interest that a subscriber could enter in the ATS. For example, if a Covered ATS has
minimum or maximum order sizes, or a minimum increment size requirement for order
modifications, those requirements and related handling procedures would be responsive to the
Item. The Commission is also proposing to add the example of how residual or unexecuted
orders are handled to the types of related handling procedures that a Covered ATS would be
required to include in Part III, Item 7. Broker-dealer operators employ market access and risk
management controls and procedures that prevent the entry of erroneous orders and orders that
are above a subscriber’s predetermined threshold. If order size requirements are imposed on
subscribers as part of a risk management procedure, an explanation of those procedures as they
relate to the ATS would be responsive to this Item. An explanation of how a Covered ATS’s
requirements and conditions related to the size of trading interest differ among subscribers and
persons would also provide a market participant with information regarding how its trading
interest would be handled in relation to other market participants.

585 As discussed above, to streamline the format of responses, the Commission is proposing
to consolidate current Form ATS-N Part III, Items 8(a) through (f) in Part III, Item 7 of
revised Form ATS-N. The Commission believes that the information requested is the
same, and the information requests covered by these sub-items (odd-lot orders and
mixed-lot orders) would be covered in Part III, Item 7 of revised Form ATS-N.
217
Covered ATSs may offer the use of various types of trading facilities to bring together
the orders of buyers and sellers and for such orders to interact. These types of systems would be
disclosed in Part III, Item 7 of Form ATS-N. For example, many Covered ATSs bring together
multiple buyers and sellers using limit order matching systems. Other Covered ATSs offer the
use of crossing mechanisms that allow participants to enter unpriced orders to buy and sell
securities, with the ATS’s system crossing orders at specified times at a price derived from
another market.586 Some Covered ATSs offer the use an auction mechanism that matches
multiple buyers and sellers by first pausing execution in a certain security for a set amount of
time, during which the ATS’s system seeks out and/or concentrates liquidity for the auction;
after the trading pause, orders will execute at either a single auction price or according to the
priority rules for the auction’s execution. Certain Covered ATSs may use a voice system to
bring together orders as well, or a combination of voice and electronic systems. Part III, Item 7,
would require Covered ATSs to provide disclosure of how these facilities operate.
In addition, Part III, Item 7 would require a Covered ATS to disclose its rules and
procedures under which orders interact and buyers and sellers agree upon the terms of a trade.587
Form ATS-N sets forth a non-exhaustive list of such rules and procedures, which includes order
interaction, priority,588 pricing methodologies, allocation, matching, and execution of orders and
other procedures for trading, such as price improvement functionality, price protection

586 See Regulation ATS Adopting Release, supra note 31, at 70849 n.37.
587 The Commission is proposing to add examples of functionalities used in the government
securities market for which a Government Securities ATS would be required to explain
the ATS’s rules and procedures, if applicable.
588 The Commission is making a non-substantive change to Part III, Item 7 of Form ATS-N
to state that a Covered ATS would be required to disclose the order type’s priority “in
relation to” (rather than “vis-à-vis”) other orders on the book due to changes in the
NBBO or other reference price.
218
mechanisms, short sales, functionality to adjust or hedge orders, locked-crossed markets, the
handling of execution errors, the time-stamping of messages and executions, and any conditions
or processes for terminating a counterparty match.
589
The Commission is also proposing that a Covered ATS disclose pricing methodologies
used for each type of security traded by the ATS under Part III, Item 7.590 For example, orders
may be priced using spreads off a benchmark price, or spreads between two different maturities
of a security. A Covered ATS may also restrict the allowable deviation from a benchmark price,
or allow for indicative pricing of certain securities. If a transaction has more than one leg, the
ATS may price both legs according to a price derived from one of the securities traded. In
response to this request, a Covered ATS would be required to describe the ATS’s procedures for
determining all pricing methodologies and to the extent the pricing methodologies differ among
subscribers and the broker-dealer operator, the ATS must disclose those differences.
In addition, Item 7 would require Covered ATSs to disclose how orders may interact with
non-firm trading interest or separate trading functionalities within the ATS or offered by the
broker-dealer operator. Item 7 would also require Covered ATSs to disclose the various
procedures under which orders interact and match. Some Covered ATSs may offer price-time
priority to determine how to match orders (potentially with various exceptions), while others
may offer midpoint-only matching with time priority. Some Covered ATSs might also take into
account other factors to determine priority. For example, a Covered ATS may assign either a
lower or higher priority to an order entered by a subscriber in a certain class (e.g., orders of
principal traders or retail investors) or sent from a particular source (e.g., orders sent by an
algorithm or similar functionality) when compared to an equally priced order entered by a

589 This non-exhaustive list is the same as what is in current Form ATS-N, Part III, Item 11.
590 Part III, Item 7 would require Government Securities ATSs and, to the extent applicable,
NMS Stock ATSs, to describe any functionality to adjust or hedge orders.
219
different subscriber or via a different source. Also, if applicable, the Item would require an
explanation of which party to a trade would receive any price improvement depending on the
priority, order type, and prices of the matched orders and the percentage of price improvement
the party would receive. A broker-dealer operator could also act as the counterparty for each
side of a transaction that matches on its ATS.
Pursuant to the proposed instruction at the beginning of Part III, Covered ATSs would be
required to disclose any differences in treatment among subscribers, the broker-dealer, and other
participants in the ATS as they relate to the means and facilities for bringing together the orders
of buyers and sellers.
Request for Comment
115. What are the most prevalent order types on Government Securities ATSs? Are there
more important means than order types for subscribers to communicate the handling of
their trading interest on Government Securities ATSs? Does Form ATS-N capture all of
the means for subscribers of Government Securities ATSs to communicate the handling
of their orders? Are there any aspects of order types on Government Securities ATSs that
should be specifically addressed in the Item? If yes, please explain.
116. Are there any operations or procedures, either of an ATS or a broker-dealer operator,
which could limit the entry, or size of, a subscriber’s orders submitted to the ATS? If so,
please describe these operations or procedures and explain why they are important to
subscribers.
117. Are there any specific means or facilities used to bring together multiple buyers and
sellers on Covered ATSs that should be specifically included as an example in this Item?
Are there any rules and procedures that govern trading of government securities and
repos that should be specifically included as examples in this Item?
220
h. Item 8: Use of Non-Firm Trading Interest; Communication Protocols and
Negotiation Functionality
As discussed above, the proposed definition of “exchange” would include systems that
make available the use of non-firm trading interest and communication protocols to bring
together buyers and sellers of securities. Form ATS-N currently includes questions about NMS
Stock ATSs’ use of conditional order functionality and IOIs,
591 which can be forms of
communication protocols. Current Form ATS-N, however, does not contain comprehensive
disclosure requests about systems that solely offer the use of non-firm trading interest and
communication protocols because, as discussed above, such systems typically do not fall within
the criteria of current Exchange Act Rule 3b-16(a) and, therefore, do not operate pursuant to the
ATS exemption. The Commission is proposing to revise Part III, Item 8 to request information
about the operations of these systems and the requests would be applicable to both NMS Stock
ATSs and Government Securities ATSs. With respect to conditional orders and IOIs, Part III,
Item 8 of revised Form ATS-N incorporates and expands on the current disclosure requirements
of Part III, Item 9 (Conditional Orders and Indications of Interest) and Part III, Items 7 (Order
Types) and 8 (Order Sizes) of current Form ATS-N as they relate to conditional orders and IOIs
in the ATS.
Proposed Part III, Item 8 of revised Form ATS-N would require Covered ATSs to
disclose whether they make available communication protocols for buyers and sellers to
communicate non-firm trading interest, solicit interest to buy or sell a security, discover prices,
 591 Part III, Item 9 of current Form ATS-N asks about conditional orders and IOIs. Part III,
Item 8 of current Form ATS-N asks about order sizes. The Commission is proposing to
incorporate the requirements of Part III, Item 8 into Part III, Items 7 and 8. In addition,
the Commission is proposing to incorporate the requirements in Part III, Item 9 of current
Form ATS-N in Part III, Item 8 of revised Form ATS-N.
221
find a counterparty, or negotiate a trade. Such systems could offer, for example, RFQ or workup
protocols, stream axes, or conditional order functionalities.592
If the Covered ATS provides communication protocols and negotiation functionalities, it
would be required to identify and explain the protocols and functionalities in the response to Part
III, Item 8. The Commission believes that identifying and explaining these functionalities would
provide transparency regarding how buyers and sellers can interact with each other on the
system. This would require the Covered ATS to provide a narrative description of how
participants in the ATS send and receive messages, how such messages interact, and the rules,
procedures, and protocols governing the use of non-firm trading interest in the Covered ATS. To
facilitate this disclosure, the Commission is proposing to include in Form ATS-N a description
of the types of information that should be explained in this Item. The Commission recognizes,
however, that each system operates differently and may offer unique protocols, and has designed
Part III, Item 8 to allow ATSs the flexibility to provide a narrative response that will help market
participants understand the protocols governing their systems.
First, the Covered ATS would be required to explain the use of messages in the ATS.
Messaging is a primary tool by which Communication Protocol Systems bring together buyers
and sellers. Use of messaging is critical to how buyers and sellers can use the system to find one
another and negotiate a transaction. The Commission believes that ATSs offer diverse types of
messaging that facilitate communication and negotiation, including non-firm trading interest that
subscribers expose to other subscribers, communications that subscribers send to other
subscribers to negotiate transactions, messages that subscribers use to communicate to the ATS
how they want their trading interest to be handled, as well as messages the ATS sends to
subscribers to communicate the presence of trading interest. The Commission believes that this

592 See supra Section II.B.2.
222
information will help market participants understand how they can use messages in the ATS to
interact with potential counterparties and to communicate how they want their trading interest to
be handled by the ATS.
The Commission is proposing to provide a non-exhaustive list of what this explanation
would include, as applicable to the Covered ATS’s protocols and functionalities. The Covered
ATS would be required to describe and explain each type of message the ATS permits
participants to send and receive and the types of persons that can send and receive each type of
messages (e.g., the ATS, types of subscribers, specific subscribers, customers of subscribers,
trading venues). The ATS would also be required to disclose the information contained in
messages (e.g., symbol, price, direction (i.e., buy or sell), or size minimums) and any other
information that a participant may choose to include in a message. If terms in messages can vary
based on potential recipients (e.g., different subscribers may receive varying priced messages for
the same security), the Covered ATS would be required to disclose that.
The Commission is proposing that the Covered ATS disclose whether messages are
attributed to their sender or anonymous, and whether a subscriber may elect to disclose its
identity to other participants, and if so, what is disclosed and how, when, and to whom. The
Commission understands that some Communication Protocol Systems allow participants to
negotiate trades on an attributed basis so that certain counterparties may know the identity of
other counterparties pre-trade. In some cases, subscribers on the ATS have established
relationships and may choose to share their identity with a pre-selected list of potential
counterparties or potential counterparties that meet certain criteria. Even while the subscriber
discloses its identity to others, the identity of potential counterparties may be either known or
anonymous. The Covered ATS would be required to describe when, and under what conditions,
the subscriber or the ATS discloses subscribers’ identities and how and when messages are
transmitted (e.g., order management system, router, or FIX).
223
The Covered ATS would be required to describe the processes to respond to a message
and any parameters around such responses. In the Commission’s experience, on negotiation
systems, a subscriber or the Covered ATS makes known the existence of trading interest or an
interest in negotiation, and potential counterparties have the opportunity to respond. For
example, a Covered ATS would be required to explain how the sender of a message would
“firm-up” a conditional or other non-firm message to execute a trade. The ATS would also be
required to describe the processes to respond to a request to negotiate, and for subscribers who
initiate an RFQ to respond to any responses. In addition, if the ATS permits the initiating party
or respondents a final opportunity prior to execution to accept or reject the price after the
negotiating parties agree to a trading price (i.e., a “last look”), the ATS must describe such
processes.
Part III, Item 8 would require the Covered ATS to describe any time parameters that the
ATS sets or permits subscribers to set regarding sending and receiving messages. This would
include time-in-force restrictions that a subscriber may place on trading interest in a message
(e.g., fill-or-kill, day, good-til-cancel). This would also include time parameters for updating
prices or responding to trading interest or requests for negotiation applicable during any
negotiation process. In the case of an RFQ, subscribers may provide a specific price with a
“wire time” during which such price is actionable. Any parameters around such wire times
would be required to be disclosed by the Covered ATS. Additionally, if the Covered ATS
requires that a subscriber firm-up its conditional orders within, for example, three seconds of
receiving a response, the Covered ATS would be required to state so. Any time parameters
within which an initiator of a message would have to respond to responses to its messages would
also be disclosed under Part III, Item 8.
The Covered ATS would also be required to provide information regarding the contraparty trading interest made available or known on the system, including whether a subscriber
224
may elect whether to display only part of its trading interest. The instruction in Part III, Item 8
would state that, if trading interest is made known on the system, the ATS would be required to
describe it in Part III, Item 15. Part III, Item 8 of Form ATS-N would also require a description
of the circumstances under which messages may be modified, replaced, canceled, rejected, or
removed from the Covered ATS. The Covered ATS would also be required to describe any
restrictions or conditions under which the message might result in the match of two
counterparties, require a response, or result in an execution in the Covered ATS (e.g., interaction,
matching, selection, automatic execution) and any price conditions (e.g., how price conditions
affect the rank and price at which the message can result in an execution).
The Covered ATS would also be required to describe the limits or requirements for
multiple messages sent at the same time. For example, if the Covered ATS prohibits a subscriber
from entering non-firm trading interest to buy and sell the same bond or security at the same
time, entering the same price for a buy and sell order in the same bond (i.e., a locked market), or
entering a lower-priced sell order than the buy order (i.e., inverted market), it should disclose
these. In addition, the ATS would be required to state whether a message containing trading
interest is eligible to be sent to destinations outside the Covered ATS, and if so, describe it in
Part III, Item 16. The Covered ATS would also be required to disclose information about the
availability of message types across all forms of connectivity to the ATS. To the extent there are
differences in the availability of message types across forms of connectivity, the ATS would
need to describe those differences.
A Covered ATS would also be required to disclose, with respect to non-firm trading
interest, any requirements relating to the size of trading interest (e.g., minimum or maximum
size, odd-lot, mixed-lot, trading increments, message controls or throttling). This would include
the requirements of Part III, Item 8 of current Form ATS-N, and also include examples of
limitations, such as message controls or throttling, that the Commission understands a
225
negotiation system, for example, may use to limit the number of messages sent by a subscriber.
The Covered ATS would also be required to disclose any related handling procedures, such as,
for example, the handling of residual trading interest after an execution on the ATS (e.g.,
whether it is canceled or remains in the system).
In addition, in its response to Part III, Item 8, the Covered ATS would also be required to
disclose in its response the procedures governing communication protocols. These requirements
are currently incorporated in Part III, Item 11 of current Form ATS-N. Requiring information
about such procedures would provide transparency into how buyers and sellers may interact, and
how non-firm trading interest may interact with other trading interest in the ATS. The
Commission is proposing to require disclosure of how Covered ATSs prioritize and permit their
subscribers to prioritize trading interest, to provide information that market participants can use
to choose an appropriate venue at which they can interact with other subscribers or send trading
interest. As applicable, the Covered ATS would be required to provide in Part III, Item 8, a
description of priority applied to a message upon entry and any subsequent change to priority (if
applicable, whether and when the message can receive a new time stamp, the message’s priority
in relation to other messages in the Covered ATS due to a change to any reference price, and any
instance in which a message could lose execution priority to a later arriving message at the same
price); whether the Covered ATS permits or provides for subscribers to vary pricing based on the
identity of other subscribers (e.g., preferred pricing feeds or tiered pricing); and whether
subscribers can select counterparties based on their identity or other factors. If a Covered ATS
allows subscribers complete discretion to, for example, select which counterparty to interact with
when the prices such counterparties offer are the same, the Covered ATS would be required to
disclose that.
In addition, Part III, Item 8 would require a Covered ATS to disclose its rules and
procedures under which buyers and sellers interact and agree upon the terms of a trade. Based
226
on Commission staff experience, ATSs disclose various methods, rules, and conditions under
which subscribers may interact using trading interest. Form ATS-N would provide a nonexhaustive list of such rules and procedures, which includes those for participant interaction,
pricing methodologies, allocation, matching, and execution. This question is designed to provide
transparency to those diverse methods, rules, and conditions so that market participants better
understand how the ATS will handle non-firm trading interest and how subscribers may interact
with others in the ATS. If the Covered ATS auto-executes non-firm trading interest, the ATS
would also be required to disclose the functionality or protocols governing such auto-execution.
The Covered ATS would be required to disclose, for example, how the ATS or a subscriber can
designate trading interest as automatically executable. Any limitations that subscribers may
impose on auto-execution would be responsive to such request.
The Covered ATS would also be required to discuss in Part III, Item 8 how non-firm
trading interest may interact with orders or separate trading functionalities in the ATS or
functionality offered by the broker-dealer operator. For example, if an IOI can interact with a
firm order on the Covered ATS’s order book, it should disclose this and any policies and
procedures for such interaction. To the extent that the Covered ATS has disclosed this in Part
III, Item 7 in its discussion of how firm orders can interact with non-firm trading interest, the
ATS should describe how the non-firm trading interest may interact with firm trading interest
and may cross-reference the disclosure in Part III, Item 7.
In the Commission’s experience, ATSs have adopted other trading procedures governing
interaction and execution. The Commission is proposing to include examples of such procedures
governing communication protocols that would be required to be disclosed. This would include
functionality or protocols that permit the selection of displayed non-firm trading interest to trade
against. In the Commission’s experience, negotiation systems may allow subscribers to choose
the trading interest they interact with; any procedures governing such selection should be
227
disclosed in Part III, Item 8. In addition, the Commission believes that market participants
would benefit from transparency regarding procedures that could re-price trading interest or
prevent it from interacting with other trading interest under certain conditions. Accordingly, the
Form ATS-N would provide a non-exhaustive list of procedures that includes price
improvement, price protection mechanisms, procedures related to short sales, functionality to
adjust or hedge trading interest, locked-crossed markets, the handling of execution errors,
platform and trade controls (e.g., fat finger checks, whether the ATS can employ a global kill
switch), the time-stamping of trading interest messages and executions, and any conditions or
processes for terminating a counterparty match.
In addition, the Covered ATS would be required to disclose what information is available
to subscribers from the ATS about interaction history, counterparty matching, or executions
(e.g., pre- and post-trade data, best execution analysis, transaction cost analysis), when such
information is made available, the source(s) of such information, and the process for subscribers
to access this information. The Commission believes that requiring such information would
allow market participants to better assess the information that Covered ATSs provide, including
allowing them to analyze or evaluate their performance, resolve potential disputes, and/or
understand how their trading interest has historically interacted and been treated in the ATS,
among other things.
Request for Comment
118. Are there any aspects of how Covered ATSs permit non-firm trading interest to be sent
and/or received that are not covered by this Item? Are there any aspects of how
subscribers interact with each other on Covered ATSs by using non-firm trading interest
that are not covered by this Item? What information about non-firm trading interest and
the process for transmitting non-firm trading interest would be useful to market
participants?
228
i. Item 9: Monitoring and Surveillance of the ATS Market
The Commission is proposing that Part III, Item 9(a) of Form ATS-N require a Covered
ATS to disclose information about the activities the ATS undertakes to supervise the trading
activity that occurs on or through the ATS (e.g., supervisory systems and procedures to detect,
deter, or limit potentially disruptive, manipulative, or non-bona fide quoting and trading
activities that occur on or through its system and to ensure that they are reasonably designed to
achieve compliance with applicable SRO rules and the Federal securities laws) and to provide a
summary of any supervision activities that occur on or through the ATS, the sources of data the
ATS uses to supervise trading activity (e.g., internal or external sources), and the activities that
the ATS intends to detect, deter, or limit.
As a registered broker-dealer, an ATS must comply with the filing and conduct
obligations associated with being a registered broker-dealer, including becoming a member of an
SRO, such as FINRA, and compliance with SRO rules.
593 Accordingly, ATSs must comply with
SRO rules which, among other things, require each member to maintain a reasonably designed
supervisory system.594 For example, FINRA states it expects an ATS’s supervisory system to be

593 Section 15(b)(8) of the Exchange Act requires a broker or dealer to become a member of
a registered national securities association, unless it effects transactions in securities
solely on an exchange of which it is a member. 15 U.S.C. 78o(b)(8).
594 See Regulatory Notice 18-25, ATS Supervision Obligations, August 13, 2018, available
at https://www.finra.org/sites/default/files/Regulatory-Notice-18-25.pdf (“FINRA
Regulatory Notice”) at 3. In addition, FINRA Rule 3310 requires FINRA members to,
among other things: establish and maintain a system to supervise the activities of each
associated person that is reasonably designed to achieve compliance with applicable
securities laws, regulations, and FINRA rules; establish, maintain, and enforce written
procedures to supervise the types of business in which it engages and the activities of
associated persons that are reasonably designed to achieve compliance with applicable
securities laws, regulations, and FINRA rules; conduct a review, at least annually of the
businesses in which it engages reasonably designed to assist the member in detecting and
preventing violations of, and achieving compliance with, applicable securities laws,
regulations, and FINRA rules and retain a written record of the date upon which each
review and inspection is conducted; and include in its supervisory procedures a process
229
reasonably designed to identify “red flags,” including potentially manipulative or non-bona fide
trading that occurs on or through its systems, and that ATSs must regularly assess and evaluate
their supervisory systems and procedures to ensure that they are reasonably defined to achieve
compliance with applicable FINRA rules and the Federal securities laws.
595 The Commission
believes that the information disclosed in response to this request would help market participants
understand the scope of supervision activities that an ATS performs to mitigate potentially
manipulative and non-bona fide trading that occurs on or through its system. This information
could also help regulators, including the Commission and FINRA, to assess the extent to which
an ATS’s supervision procedures are designed to facilitate investor protection over activities
occurring in the ATS and comply with the applicable rules, including the Exchange Act and
FINRA rules.
The Commission is proposing Part III, Item 9(b) of Form ATS-N to request disclosures
about whether the ATS monitors for certain types of trading behaviors or activities that may be
detrimental to the ATS market place or trading (e.g., anti-gaming technology) and, if so, to
provide a summary of the ATS’s monitoring activities and the trading behaviors and explain the
activities that the ATS intends to detect, deter, or limit. In the NMS Stock ATS Adopting
Release, the Commission described that, in response to the proposal of Form ATS-N,
commenters requested that information about the monitoring activities the ATS performs be
included in Form ATS-N.596 One commenter suggested that disclosure of certain additional

for the review of securities transactions that are reasonably designed to identify trades
that may violate the provisions of the Exchange Act, the rules thereunder, or FINRA rules
prohibiting insider trading and manipulative and deceptive devices that are effected for
certain accounts. See FINRA Rule 3310.
595 See FINRA Regulatory Notice, supra note 594, at 3.
596 See NMS Stock ATS Adopting Release, supra note 2, at 38850.
230
trading services should be required, specifically whether the ATS employs technology designed
to detect and deter price manipulation and other disruptive trading practices (i.e., anti-gaming
technology), and, if so, the ATSs should include a description of this technology in the form.597
This commenter stated that existence of such technology can increase market confidence,
particularly for market participants that transact in large volumes, such as funds, because it
shows that a trading venue is committed to providing a fair and competitive market.598 This
commenter further stated that funds currently have no mechanism to receive standardized
information regarding anti-gaming technology or to compare anti-gaming technology across
different ATSs.599 Another commenter stated that anti-gaming technology and other subscriberrelated safeguards are among the core attributes of ATSs that are of particular importance to buyside institutions.600
The Commission, however, declined to adopt a request related to anti-gaming technology
and subscriber-related safeguards at that time because such descriptions made in a publicly
available document could serve to undermine those safeguards by disclosing information that
makes evading those safeguards easier.601 However, the Commission is now proposing this
requirement because it believes that market participants would want to know how the ATS may
monitor for certain trading behaviors or activities that may be detrimental to the ATS market
place or to the participants that use the ATS’s services. In addition, the information would help

597 See Letter from David W. Blass, General Counsel, Investment Company Institute, dated
February 25, 2016, at 9-10.
598 See id.
599 See id.
600 See Letter from Phillip S. Gillespie, Executive Vice President, General Counsel, State
Street Global Advisors, dated February 26, 2016 at 2-3. See also Memorandum from the
Office of Commissioner Kara Stein regarding a July 26, 2016 meeting with
representatives of Morgan Stanley (including in a presentation that whether an ATS has
anti-gaming controls is among the frequently asked questions by clients).
601 See NMS Stock ATS Adopting Release, supra note 2, 83 FR 38850.
231
market participants determine which ATSs provide better market quality that the market
participants would be more inclined to effect transactions on. In the Commission staff’s
experience reviewing Forms ATS-N filed by NMS Stock ATSs, some NMS Stock ATSs have
described information about their surveillance procedures and other safeguards, which allow
market participants to understand their practices, while avoiding the level of detail that would
help enable market participants to evade them. Accordingly, the Commission believes that the
requests for information proposed would not serve to undermine the ATS’s surveillance and
monitoring activities because the Commission is requesting summary level information, which
would strike the right balance in requiring these important disclosures and avoiding the risk that
market participants could use the disclosures on Form ATS-N to evade such tools and controls.
Request for Comment
119. Would requiring summary disclosure regarding the Covered ATS’s anti-gaming
technology and similar safeguards benefit market participants? What other information
regarding monitoring and surveillance of activity in the ATS would be beneficial? Does
the proposed summary disclosure strike the right balance in providing disclosure and
avoiding the risk that market participants could use the disclosures to evade the ATS’s
tools and controls?
j. Item 10: Opening and Reopening
Part III, Item 10 of Form ATS-N is designed to provide information about the use of any
special processes and procedures related to matching trading interest at the opening, or to set a
single opening or reopening price to, for example, maximize liquidity and accurately reflect
market conditions at the opening or reopening of trading. The Commission believes that this
disclosure requirement is important because market participants would likely want to know about
any special opening or reopening processes, including which types of trading interest can
participate in the opening or reopening processes or whether there are any protocols at the open
232
for buyers and sellers to send messages and negotiate a trade. To capture processes related to
sending, receiving, and viewing trading interest for communication protocols and negotiation
systems, the Commission is proposing to specify in Part III, Item 10 that the ATS should disclose
when and how trading interest may be sent, received, and viewed at opening, how unexecuted
trading interest is handled at the time the ATS begins its regular trading hours or following a
stoppage of trading in a security during its regular trading hours, and whether there are any
protocols at the open for buyers and sellers to send messages and negotiate a trade.
Based on Commission staff experience with Form ATS-N filings, the Commission is
proposing to amend Form ATS-N to incorporate the requirements of Part III, Item 10(c) of
current Form ATS-N with the requirements of Part III, Item 10(a). In its experience, the
Commission observed significant overlap in the responses to Part III, Item 10(a), which asks
about how the ATS opens or re-opens after stoppage, and Part III, Item 10(c), which asks how
unexecuted trading interest is handled at the start of regular trading hours or following a
stoppage, as the treatment of unexecuted trading interest is an integral part of an ATS’s opening
and re-opening procedures. Because of this overlap, some NMS Stock ATSs repeat the
disclosures in both current Form ATS-N Part III, Items 10(a) and (c). To streamline the
disclosure and reduce redundancy, the Commission is proposing to specify in Part III, Item 10(a)
of revised Form ATS-N that the Covered ATS describe how unexecuted trading interest is
handled at the time the ATS begins its regular trading hours or following a stoppage of trading in
a security during its regular trading hours, and to delete the separate disclosure requirements of
Part III, Item 10(c) of current Form ATS-N.
Information about when the Covered ATS will price and prioritize trading interest during
the opening or reopening of the ATS would provide market participants with the information
they need to plan and execute their trading strategies during these periods. The Item would also,
for example, require disclosure of any processes or procedures to match trading interest to set a
233
single opening or reopening price to maximize liquidity and accurately reflect market conditions
at the opening or reopening of trading. For trading interest allowed to be submitted before an
ATS opens for trading, the Item 10(b) would require an explanation of what priority rules would
apply to that trading interest.
602 The Commission believes most participants consider important
the procedures for the pricing and priority of trading interest, and the types of trading interest
allowed because these rules and procedures can directly impact their execution price. The
disclosures are also designed to provide information to subscribers about when they may use the
systems to send or receive messages or view trading interest at the open or reopen, and the status
of any messages or orders that may be pending before the ATS opens or reopens.
Request for Comment
120. Do Government Securities ATSs have any special opening and reopening processes and
procedures around Treasury auctions? If so, do commenters believe there any aspects of
the opening and reopening processes for Treasury auctions that should be specifically
addressed in this Item?
k. Item 11: Interaction with Related Markets
Proposed Part III, Item 11 of Form ATS-N is designed to provide information about any
functionality, procedure or protocol used to facilitate trading or communication on, or source
pricing for, the Covered ATS that is offered by the broker-dealer operator or its affiliates603 using
markets for financial instruments related to the securities it trades (“Related Markets”). In the
2020 Proposal, the Commission proposed to add a similar question to Form ATS-G; the

602 The Commission is renumbering Part III, Item 10(e) of current Form ATS-N as Part III,
Item 10(b) in revised Form ATS-N. The Commission also proposes to clarify in Item 10
that “regular trading hours” refer to the ATS’s regular trading hours.
603 Among other things, services to facilitate trading or source pricing for the Government
Securities ATS using non-government securities markets that are offered by a third-party
by arrangement with the broker-dealer operator or affiliates would also be required to be
disclosed under this Item.
234
Commission is now proposing to add this question to Form ATS-N and to make it applicable to
both Government Securities ATSs and NMS Stock ATSs. Markets for financial instruments
related to government securities could include those non-government securities markets that
trade futures, currencies, fixed income, and swaps, for example. Markets for financial
instruments related to NMS stocks could include, for example, non-NMS stock markets that
trade futures, options, and swaps. If applicable, the Covered ATS would: (1) identify the
functionality, procedures, protocols, and source of pricing and the Related Market; (2) state
whether the functionality, procedures, protocols, and source of pricing is provided or operated by
the broker-dealer operator or its affiliate, and whether the Related Market is provided or operated
by the broker-dealer operator or its affiliate; (3) explain the use of the functionality, procedures,
protocols, and source of pricing with regard to the Related Market and the ATS, including how
and when the functionality, procedures, protocols, and source of pricing can be used, by whom,
and with what markets.
The functionalities, procedures, or protocols required to be disclosed would include, for
example, offering order types to facilitate transactions in the ATS and the Related Market,
procedures to allow subscribers to perform multi-leg transactions involving another market and
the ATS, or a protocol to allow a subscriber to communicate with other persons to negotiate a
trade including, for example, a government security and non-government security. A Covered
ATS could offer, for example, Exchange-for-Physical (“EFP”) transactions that can involve
markets in addition to the ATS. An EFP transaction where ATS subscribers agree to exchange a
financial product, such as a futures contract on a government security, for the underlying related
government security or NMS stock, would be responsive to this Item. The Commission believes
235
that it would be important to participants to understand functionality, procedures, and protocols
made available to them, as they can impact their experience in the ATS.604
Information about how the ATS uses market data from a Related Market, through an
aggregator or otherwise, to provide the services it offers would also be required by the form.605
Among other things, for example, the ATS would need to disclose in response to this Item its use
of such market data to display, price, prioritize, execute, and remove trading interest in the
ATS.606 As part of this explanation, the ATS would specify, if applicable, when the ATS may
change sources of market data to provide its services. In response to proposed Part III, Item 11
of Form ATS-N, the ATS would explain how, for example, market data from a Related Market is
received by the ATS, compiled, and delivered to the matching engine. For example, among
other possible arrangements, the ATS could explain that market data from a Related Market is
received and assembled by the broker-dealer operator, and subsequently delivered to the
matching engine, or that market data is sent directly to the matching engine, which normalizes
the data for its use. The ATS would disclose, for example, whether it uses market data from the
futures market to price and execute EFP transactions and describe how it uses that market data
under this Item.

604 To the extent that a Government Securities ATS offers a functionality, procedure, or
protocol using a market for government securities (e.g., trading venue for U.S. Treasury
Securities or options) or an NMS Stock ATS offers a functionality, procedure, or protocol
using a market for NMS stocks, the Covered ATS would disclose information about that
functionality, procedure, or protocol in Part III, Item 11 of Form ATS-N.
605 If a Covered ATS uses market data from another market that trades government
securities, that information would be disclosed under Part III, Item 22 of revised Form
ATS-N.
606 Disclosure of any market data used by the Covered ATS, including market data for
options and repos on government securities, would be required under Part III, Item 22 of
Form ATS-N.
236
A broker-dealer operator’s activities in financial instruments related to the securities that
the ATS trades or offerings of a Related Market, such as a futures exchange, along with its
operation of an ATS, raise the potential for information leakage of a subscriber’s confidential
trading information, or the broker-dealer operator could provide certain advantages to
subscribers that use a Related Market that it operates. As such, Item 11 would require
information about whether the functionality, protocols, procedures, and source of pricing on the
Covered ATS or the Related Markets are provided or operated by the broker-dealer operator or
its affiliates.
Request for Comment
121. What are commenters’ views on the relationship between markets for government
securities and Related Markets and between markets for NMS stocks and Related
Markets and how investors may use these markets together with a Covered ATS to
achieve their trading objectives?
122. What aspects of government securities markets or NMS stock markets and Related
Markets, such as the futures markets, do market participants use for trading on a Covered
ATS? What information about those markets might be useful to a subscriber and why?
l. Item 12: Liquidity Providers
Part III, Item 12 of Form ATS-N is designed to disclose information about arrangements
with liquidity providers. Like national securities exchanges,607 ATSs might engage firms to
provide liquidity on both sides of the market. The Commission has observed that the
overwhelming majority of registered national securities exchanges have structured programs for
market makers, which generally set forth both obligations (e.g., continuous quoting at or within

607 See, e.g., NYSE Guide Rule 104 (Dealings and Responsibilities of DMMs), Nasdaq
Rule Equity 2, Section 5 (Market Maker Obligations).
237
the NBBO) and often, some benefits (e.g., fee rebates). Similarly, a Covered ATS may want to
ensure that there is sufficient contra-side liquidity available in the ATS in a particular security to
incentivize market participants to send trading interest in that security to the ATS. To do this,
the ATS may engage certain market participants to quote in a security or trade against orders in
the Covered ATS, performing similar functions to a market maker on a national securities
exchange.608
To the extent that a Covered ATS and a participant have entered into an arrangement
under which that participant undertakes obligations to display, enter, or trade against trading
interest on the Covered ATS, the Commission believes that market participants should know
both the terms and conditions of such an arrangement and the identity of the liquidity-provider
ATS participant. Form ATS-N currently requires an ATS to disclose the terms and conditions of
an arrangement with a liquidity provider and the names of any liquidity providers that are either
business units of the broker-dealer operator or affiliates of the broker-dealer operator.609 When it
adopted Form ATS-N, the Commission explained that it was requiring disclosure regarding
liquidity providers because it believed that market participants would want to know the identity
of such liquidity providers to help evaluate potential conflicts of interest or information leakage
on the trading platform.
610 The Commission now believes that the names of all liquidity
providers should be disclosed to evaluate potential conflicts of interest and the potential for
information leakage. Specifically, if a participant is obligated to provide contra-side liquidity
and, for example, derives a particular benefit in exchange for undertaking such an obligation, the

608 These liquidity providers may quote in a particular security in the ATS during trading
hours and may receive a benefit for performing this function, such as discounts on fees,
rebates, or the opportunity to execute with a particular type of segmented order flow.
609 See Part II, Items 1(c) and 2(c) of Form ATS-N.
610 See NMS Stock ATS Adopting Release, supra note 2, at 38829.
238
Commission believes that other users of the ATS should know who that liquidity provider is,
how it is expected to trade in the ATS, and the benefit that it is receiving. This disclosure would
be similar to Exhibit M of Form 1, which requires national securities exchanges to publicly
disclose, among other things, the identity of all market makers and liquidity providers. The
Commission believes it appropriate to require a similar level of disclosure for Covered ATSs
with regard to the identity of market makers and liquidity providers, given the sizable market
share of such entities in their respective sectors.
Additionally, the Commission believes that information about liquidity providers would
be useful to ATS participants who, for example, may want their orders to only interact with
agency orders (and not with those of a liquidity provider), or, conversely, may themselves want
to become liquidity providers on the Covered ATS. Such arrangement could take many forms,
and the function of the liquidity provider on an ATS could depend on the structure and trading
protocols of the ATS. This Item could cover, for example, arrangements or agreements between
the broker-dealer operator and another party to quote or trade on the Covered ATS. The Item
does not cover agreements with a subscriber that has no obligation to buy or sell securities in the
ATS. Furthermore, to obtain disclosures about activity on Communication Protocol Systems, the
Commission is proposing to revise Part III, Item 12 of Form ATS-N, which asks about whether
there are arrangements to “provide” orders and trading interest, and, instead, to ask about
arrangements to “display, enter, or trade against” trading interest.
Accordingly, the Commission is proposing that Part III, Item 12 require a Covered ATS
to disclose any formal or informal arrangements with any person611 or the broker-dealer operator
 611 The Commission is proposing to change the current requirement to disclose arrangements
with any “Subscriber” to display, enter, or trade against trading interest in the Covered
ATS to require disclosure of any such arrangements with any “persons.” In the
Commission’s experience, arrangements to display, enter, or trade against trading interest
in a Covered ATS may include arrangements with subscribers, non-subscriber
239
to display, enter, or trade against trading interest in the ATS (e.g., undertaking to buy or sell
continuously or to meet specified thresholds of trading or quoting activity). This will be in the
form of a “yes” or “no” question, and if the ATS answers yes, it must both identify the liquidity
provider(s) and describe the arrangement(s), including the terms and conditions.
Request for Comment
123. Are there any arrangements between Covered ATSs and persons to provide trading
interest to the Covered ATS that may not be required by this Item but should be? If any,
what is the nature of those arrangements, and why are they important to disclose publicly
on Form ATS-N?
124. Should Covered ATSs be required to identify liquidity providers on Form ATS-N?
Please explain why or why not, including any advantages or disadvantages resulting from
this disclosure.
m. Item 13: Segmentation; Notice
Part III, Item 13(a) of Form ATS-N is designed to disclose information about how trading
interest in the Covered ATS is segmented into categories, classifications, tiers, or levels. The
Covered ATS would be required to explain the segmentation procedures, including how and
what trading interest is segmented. The Commission is proposing to add in Item 13(a) of Form
ATS-N a requirement to explain where the identification of segmented trading interest is applied
(e.g., when ATS trading interest is received by the broker-dealer operator or entered into the
ATS). From the Commission’s experience, systems may segment trading interest when trading
interest enters through the broker-dealer (from the SOR or similar functionality), or when the

participants who submit orders through a subscriber or the broker-dealer operator, and
persons controlling subscribers or participants to the ATS. The Commission is therefore
proposing to revise the rule text by using the term “person” to capture arrangements with
non-subscribers that could impact order flow on the ATS.
240
trading interest is entered into the ATS. The Commission believes subscribers would want to
understand where their trading interest is segmented so they can assess who is making the
decisions about how their trading interest will be categorized when entered into the ATS and the
level of protections their confidential trading information will receive. The Covered ATS would
also be required to identify and describe any categories, classifications, tiers, or levels and the
types of trading interest that are included in each and provide a summary of the parameters for
each segmented category and length of time each segmented category is in effect. The
Commission is proposing to add to Item 13(a) that the parameters for each segmented category
would include when such category is determined, reviewed, and can be changed. Item 13(a) also
requires disclosure of any procedures for overriding a determination of segmented category and
would require how segmentation can affect trading interest interaction.
This Item is designed to provide market participants with an understanding of the
categories of trading interest or types of participants with which they may interact. In addition,
the information provided would allow them to both assess the consistency of a segmented group
and determine whether the manner in which the trading interest is segmented comports with their
views of how certain trading interest should be categorized. Disclosure of the procedures and
parameters used to segment categories would allow a participant to determine whether its view
of what constitutes certain trading interest it wants to seek or avoid is classified in the same way
by the Covered ATS. For example, a subscriber may find it useful to understand the standards a
Covered ATS uses to categorize high frequency trading firms so that it can compare the criteria
used by the ATS with its view of what constitutes a high frequency trading firm, and thus be able
to successfully trade against or avoid such trading interest. Similarly, information regarding the
procedures applicable to trading among segmented categories would allow market participants to
evaluate whether they can successfully trade against or avoid the segments of trading interest. In
response to the question regarding segmentation on previously-proposed Form ATS-G in the
241
2020 Proposal, one commenter stated that, as the fixed income market structure continues to
develop, types of segmentation options may occur in Government Securities ATSs and should be
disclosed.612
Some Covered ATSs segment trading interest entered in the ATS according to various
categories for purposes of trading interest interaction. For example, a Covered ATS could elect
to segment trading interest by type of participant (e.g., buy-side or sell-side firms, PTFs, agencyonly firms, firms above or below certain assets under management thresholds). When
segmenting trading interest in the ATS, a Covered ATS might look to the underlying source of
the trading interest such as the trading interest of retail customers. Some Covered ATSs segment
by the nature of the trading activity, which could include segmenting by patterns of behavior,
time horizons of traders, or the passivity or aggressiveness of trading strategies. Covered ATSs
might use some combination of these criteria or other criteria altogether. The ATS might use
these segmented categories to design its trading interest interaction rules, allowing only trading
interest from certain categories to interact with each other.
The Commission recognizes the concern that describing the precise criteria used by the
ATS to segment trading interest could result in gaming of those criteria by subscribers and thus
reduce the effectiveness of segmentation as a control. On the other hand, market participants are
interested in understanding how their trading interest is categorized in the ATS and the types of
market participants that would interact with its trading interest. The Commission believes that
Part III, Item 13 of Form ATS-N appropriately balances these competing interests by soliciting a
summary of the parameters for each segmented category. By requiring Covered ATSs to provide
a summary of these parameters on Form ATS-N, rather than a detailed analysis of the parameters

612 See Bloomberg Letter at 8.
242
and how they are calculated, this Item is designed to avoid responses that could allow the gaming
or manipulation of segmentation criteria.
Based on the Commission’s experience, systems that offer RFQs or BWIC protocols that
bring buyers and sellers together to negotiate may apply filtering technology to allow
participants to more easily search for securities with particular characteristics that comport with
the participants’ needs or exclude securities that do not meet the participants’ needs. They may
also offer counterparty filtering that prevents transactions between certain participants (i.e.,
potential counterparties) by prohibiting views of either party’s inventory by the other party.
Such systems may also implement permissioning procedures for subscribers to be able to view
trading interest of certain other subscribers. The Commission believes that market participants
would benefit from understanding how a Covered ATS controls the counterparty interest that
they, and their potential counterparties, can view and interact with, and accordingly, the
Commission is proposing to add new Part III, Item 13(b), which would ask if the ATS, in the
absence of subscriber direction, can prevent a participant or its potential counterparties from
viewing or interacting with certain trading interest (e.g., permissioning, filtering, or blocking).613
An ATS that has such controls would be required to explain the processes, including what a
subscriber or counterparty is prevented from viewing or interacting with and where this
determination is made (i.e., when trading interest is received at the broker-dealer operator or the
ATS); how and when the ATS prevents a subscriber or its potential counterparty from viewing or
interacting with certain trading interest; any categories, classifications, tiers, or levels, and the

613 The Commission is proposing to specify that this question relates to process implemented
“in the absence of subscriber direction.” The Commission is drawing a distinction from
the filtering or blocking that a subscriber can do in the ATS, which would be disclosed in
Part III, Item 14 (Counter-Party Selection). If the ATS, on its own, and in the absence of
subscriber directions, filters certain subscribers from viewing the existence of certain
trading interest, that would be responsive to Part III, Item 13 of Form ATS-N.
243
types of trading interest that the ATS uses to determine how subscribers can view or interact with
other trading interest; a summary of the parameters for such processes and the length of time any
such parameter is in effect; any procedures for overriding a determination of any category,
classification, tier, or level that the ATS uses to designate how subscriber trading interest can
interact; how such processes can affect trading interest interaction; and how a subscriber can
view filtered messages and any permissioning process and criteria for a subscriber to send,
receive, or interact with a message.
The Commission believes that market participants will benefit from transparency
regarding protocols that Covered ATSs use to limit in any way the trading interest that certain
subscribers can view or interact with based on the identity of the counterparty. The Commission
recognizes that RFQs and similar systems may establish protocols to block or filter participants
from viewing or interacting with the trading interest of certain potential counterparties. The
Commission is thus proposing to clarify in Part III, Item 13 of Form ATS-N that the scope of the
question would extend to ATS protocols involving the ATS filtering or blocking trading interest.
Part III, Item 13(c) would address whether the ATS identifies trading interest entered by
a customer of a broker-dealer as customer trading interest. Disclosing the origin of customer
trading interest of a broker-dealer could be a form of segmentation because it can facilitate users
restricting their trading to only certain types of market participants and it can contribute to
information leakage and adverse selection of trading interest of institutional investors, who
generally trade passively. Accordingly, Part III, Item 13(c) would require a Covered ATS to
disclose if it identifies trading interest entered by a customer of a broker-dealer in the ATS as
customer trading interest.
In addition, in Part III, Item 13(d) of Form ATS-N, the ATS would be required to state
whether it discloses to any person the designated segmented or otherwise designated category,
classification, tier, or level of trading interest and, if so, provide a summary of the content of the
244
disclosure, when and how the disclosure is communicated, who receives it, and whether and how
such designation can be contested. This requirement is substantially similar to the current
requirement of Part III, Item 13(d) of Form ATS-N, but the Commission is proposing to amend
this request to add designations other than segmentation, such as permissioning, filtering, and
blocking, that would be responsive under proposed Part III, Item 13(b) of Form ATS-N. This
would provide information to market participants about the notice that the ATS provides
subscribers about the segmented category to which they are assigned, and also, if applicable,
who can obtain information about the segmented categories of other subscribers.
Request for Comment
125. What information about the segmentation of trading interest by a Covered ATS or any
other practices or procedures that allow a Covered ATS to control which counterparties
view each other’s trading interest or are able to interact would be important to persons
that use the services of the ATS?
n. Item 14: Counter-Party Selection
Part III, Item 14(a) of Form ATS-N is designed to provide information about whether
trading interest can be designated to interact or not interact with certain trading interest in the
ATS by an ATS participant. The Commission is proposing to make minor modifications to this
question including new examples of the types of designations that a subscriber can make to
control both interactions with and matching against trading interest or a participant in the ATS.
These examples would include designations to interact with or execute against a specific
subscriber’s trading interest or prevent the trading interest of a subscriber from interacting with
or executing against the trading interest of that subscriber. If the ATS has such counterparty
selection available, it would be required to explain the counterparty selection procedures,
including how counterparties can be selected and whether the designation affects the trading
245
rules (e.g., order interaction or priority) or communication protocols of the ATS.614 To analyze
whether the ATS is an appropriate venue to accomplish their trading objectives, market
participants have an interest in knowing whether – and how – they may designate their trading
interest to interact or avoid interacting with specific trading interest or persons in the ATS. Part
III, Item 14 is designed to require disclosure of such information.
For instance, the disclosures proposed under this Item would allow a participant in the
Covered ATS to know whether it can interact with certain categories of trading interest in the
ATS or can designate trading interest submitted to the ATS to interact only with trading interest
of certain other types of ATS participants. The ATS might allow subscribers to choose from
categories of trading interest or categories of participants that the broker-dealer operator
segments in the ATS. For example, buy-side or institutional subscribers might seek to trade only
against other buy-side or institutional trading interest, or might seek to avoid trading against
PTFs or high frequency trading firms. Also, it would also be responsive to this Item for a
Covered ATS to state whether a subscriber can restrict interacting with its own trading interest,
whether such restrictions are by default or only upon subscriber request, and any applicable
limitations on such restrictions. This Item would require description of any procedures allowing
a subscriber to limit its counterparty on an order-by-order basis or a participant-by-participant
basis, how it would go about doing so, and how such selection would affect the interaction and
priority of trading interest. For example, an ATS would include in its response to this Item
whether a designation to interact with a specific category of counterparty trading interest or
participants can be made by the subscriber (i.e., by marking its trading interest) or whether the
designation must be implemented by the broker-dealer, on the subscriber’s behalf. If the broker-

614 The Commission is proposing minor changes to Form ATS-N, Part III, Item 14, which
references how the designation affects the “interaction and priority of trading interest in
the ATS” to be more inclusive of communication protocols.
246
dealer implements the counterparty designation, the ATS would also include when such
designation would go into effect (e.g., on same trading day as the subscriber’s selection or on a
date thereafter).
The Commission is also proposing to amend Form ATS-N to add a requirement that the
ATS disclose in Part III, Item 14(b) whether a subscriber can designate trading interest that the
subscriber or potential counterparties can view (e.g., filtering, blocking, permissioning). The
ATS would be required to explain any such processes, including how and when a subscriber can
(or cannot) designate which trading interest it or a potential counterparty can view, any
categories, classifications, or levels, and the types of trading interest that subscribers are able to
designate, a summary of the parameters for such processes and the length of time any such
parameter is in effect, and how such processes can affect how trading interest interacts in the
ATS. The Commission believes this type of functionality may be particularly relevant to
communication protocols and negotiation systems that may fall within the criteria of Rule 3b16(a), as proposed to be amended. From Commission staff’s experience, ATSs may disclose
counterparty filters that could, for example, allow a subscriber to prohibit itself from viewing a
potential counterparty’s inventory or to prohibit a potential counterparty from viewing its
inventory. Under proposed Part III, Item 14(b), an ATS would include in its response if, for
example, participants in the ATS can choose not to view trading interest from certain identified
potential counterparties or certain types of counterparties, such as those that have failed to
respond to RFQs in a given amount of time. Similarly, if a participant can block certain potential
counterparties from viewing its trading interest, such functionality would be required to be
disclosed in this Item as well. Market participants should be aware of how participants on the
platform can choose not to interact with certain trading interest. If, however, the ATS (and not
247
the participant) makes these designations and restricts the interactions of potential counterparties,
such designations and restrictions would be required to be disclosed under Part III, Item 13.615
Request for Comment
126. Should Form ATS-N request more or less information about how trading interest can be
designated to interact or not interact with certain trading interest in the Covered ATS?
Are there important forms of counterparty selection that the Commission should address?
o. Item 15: Display and Visibility of Trading Interest
The Commission is proposing to restructure Part III, Item 15 so market participants can
more readily understand information regarding trading interest that the Covered ATS displays to
the subscribers, the public, and any person, including the broker-dealer operator, and what
information regarding trading interest a subscriber of the ATS can display through the ATS.
Although, as discussed below, the Commission proposes to require Covered ATSs to divide the
responses to Part III, Item 15(b) of current Form ATS-N into Items 15(a), (b), and (c) in revised
Form ATS-N, the Commission believes that these questions would solicit substantially similar
information that is required by current Item 15(b) of Form ATS-N, in addition to information that
is relevant to communication protocols and the use of non-firm trading interest.
Part III, Item 15(a) of Form ATS-N would require a Covered ATS to disclose whether the
ATS displays trading interest to subscribers or the public (e.g., whether the ATS disseminates
orders through market data feeds or a website or sends invitations or requests to subscribers
about potential counterparties to trade with). If the ATS displays trading interest to subscribers
or the public, the ATS would be required to explain what information the ATS displays (e.g.,
security, price, size, direction, the identity of the sender, rating information based on the sender’s
past performance in the ATS), how and when such information is displayed, to whom such

615 See supra Section IV.D.5.m.
248
information is displayed (e.g., subscribers, public, types of market participant), and how long the
displayed information is available. In addition, the ATS would also be required to indicate
whether a subscriber can opt-out of the display of its trading interest, and if so, the process for
subscribers to do so. This Item would also require the ATS to describe differences in latencies
with which the ATS displays subscribers’ trading interest due to a functionality of the ATS. For
example, if a Covered ATS transmits and displays its proprietary data feed to certain subscribers
faster than to other subscribers as a result of the alternative means offered by the ATS to connect,
such information would be responsive to this Item. In addition, this Item would require an ATS
that offers work-ups to match trading interest to disclose the information that is displayed to all
subscribers or certain subscribers in public or private phases of the work-up, as well as what
characteristics of the trading interest are displayed.
The ATS could display subscriber trading interest in a number of ways. For instance,
when an ATS sends electronic messages outside of the ATS that expose the presence of trading
interest in the ATS, it is displaying or making known trading interest in the ATS. In Part III,
Item 15(a), a Covered ATS would be required to disclose the circumstances under which the
ATS sends these messages, the types of market participants that received them, and the
information contained in the messages, including the exact content of the information, such as
symbol, price, size, attribution, or any other information made known. An ATS may also offer a
direct data feed from the ATS that contains real-time order information.616 Some ATSs have
arrangements, whether formal or informal (oral or written), with third parties to display the

616 In the case of a Covered ATS offering a direct data feed with information about trading
interest in the ATS, the ATS would be required to disclose under Part III, Item 15 what
information the data feed provides about the trading interest, the associated timing in
receiving the feed (e.g., real-time, delayed), how a subscriber would receive the feed
(e.g., connectivity), and if all subscribers are treated the same in receiving the feed,
including whether all subscribers are eligible to receive it and any differences in latency
receiving the feed.
249
ATS’s trading interest outside of the ATS, such as IOIs from the subscribers being displayed on
vendor systems or arrangements with third parties to transmit IOIs between subscribers. A
Covered ATS would be required to include this type of information in its response to this Item.
Part III, Item 15(b) of Form ATS-N would require a Covered ATS to disclose whether a
subscriber can use the ATS to display or make known trading interest to any person (e.g., stream
quotes to the subscribers or the public or send a request for quote, IOI, conditional order, or
invitation to negotiate to a subscriber or the broker-dealer operator). If yes, the ATS would
explain what information the subscriber can display through the ATS (e.g., security, price, size,
direction, the identity of the sender), procedures for subscribers to display such information, how
and when such information is displayed, to whom such information is displayed (e.g.,
subscribers, public, types of market participant), and how long the displayed information is
available. In addition, Communication Protocol Systems may offer functionalities or protocols
to allow their subscribers, who otherwise do not have the ability to display their trading interest,
to use the functionalities or protocols to display trading interest information. Part III, Item 15(b)
would differ from Part III, Item 15(a) in that Item 15(b) would ask what information subscribers
can display or make known about their trading interest through the ATS whereas Part III, Item
15(a) would ask what information regarding trading interest the ATS displays. For example, an
ATS that receives orders and disseminates top-of-book information to subscribers would be
required to disclose this in Item 15(a), while an RFQ system that allows participants to select
when, how, and to whom to display their trading interest to solicit counterparty trading interest
would be required to disclose this in Item 15(b). The Commission is proposing the disclosure
requirements of Item 15(b) because it believes that ATS participants would want to know
whether a particular ATS would provide them with any protocol or functionality that would
enable them to stream quotes to other subscribers or the public or send a request or invitation to
negotiate to another subscriber or the broker-dealer operator. The disclosures regarding whether
250
subscribers can display or make known their trading interest and the types of information that the
subscribers can display would help market participants understand the extent to which potential
information leakage may occur on the ATS.
Part III, Item 15(c) of Form ATS-N would require a Covered ATS to disclose whether
any trading interest bound for the ATS is made known to any person—not including employees
of the ATS who are operating the system. Many market participants are sensitive to precisely
how and when the ATS displays or otherwise makes known their trading interest both inside and
outside the ATS as such information could result in other market participants trading ahead of
their positions, and thus possibly causing inferior execution prices for the participants whose
trading interest is displayed or otherwise made known. These participants could use these
disclosures to evaluate whether sending trading interest to a particular ATS would achieve their
trading strategies. In particular, subscribers that use the services of Covered ATSs, including
customers of the broker-dealer operator, have limited information about the extent to which their
trading interest sent to the ATS could be displayed outside the ATS.
For example, trading interest directed to the ATS could pass through the broker-dealer
operator’s non-ATS systems or functionalities such as an algorithm or a SOR, before entering
the ATS. Such non-ATS systems and functionalities could be used to support the broker-dealer
operator’s other business units, including any trading venues.617 It would be responsive to this
Item to identify the recipient of displayed information by identifying the functionality of the
broker-dealer operator (e.g., SOR, algorithm, trading desk), third party, or the type of market
participant618 that receives the displayed information. If, for instance, the ATS displays orders to

617 The broker-dealer operator typically controls the logic contained in these systems or
functionality that determines where trading interest that the broker-dealer operator
receives will be handled or sent.
618 See Part III, Item 1 of Form ATS-N (providing examples of types of market participants).
251
the broker-dealer operator’s SOR or trading desk, the ATS would indicate “yes” to this question.
If the answer is “yes” to either of these questions, the ATS would be required to explain what
information is displayed (e.g., security, price, size, direction, the identity of the sender), how and
when such information is displayed, to whom such information is displayed (e.g., algorithm,
SOR, trading desk, third party), and how long the displayed information is available. If, for
instance, trading interest bound for the ATS passes through the broker-dealer operator’s common
gateway or algorithm, the ATS would need to disclose these functionalities as the trading interest
was displayed to a functionality of the broker-dealer operator that would likely be outside the
ATS. If trading interest resting in the ATS is displayed to one or more of the broker-dealer
operator business units, the ATS would need to identify the business units of the broker-dealer
operator by type of market participant (e.g., institutional investors, PTFs, market makers,
affiliates, trading desks at the broker-dealer operator, market data vendors, clearing entities, and
potential subscribers, among others). This Item is designed to ensure that the ATS discloses any
display of trading interest bound to the ATS or residing in the ATS not otherwise captured in
Part III, Items 15(a) and (b). Consistent with the discussion above, the Commission believes that
market participants should have a full understanding of how and when their trading interest
becomes known to any person, particularly when the information is made known to the brokerdealer operator’s non-ATS-systems and functionalities. The Commission further believes that
information required under this Item would help market participants assess the potential for
information leakage of subscribers’ confidential trading information to the broker-dealer
operator’s non-ATS systems and functionalities.
The proposed Item would not require information about employees of the ATS in nontrading related roles, such as technical, quality assurance, compliance, or accounting roles,
252
among others, that support the ATS’s operations and to whom trading interest are made known
in the performance of their duties.619
Part III, Item 15(d) of Form ATS-N would require the ATS to indicate whether it is an
Electronic Communication Network (“ECN”) as defined in 17 CFR 242.600(a)(31) (Rule
600(a)(31) of Regulation NMS).
620 NMS Stock ATSs that are also ECNs may differ in how and
where trading interest are displayed. NMS Stock ATSs that indicate “yes” to this Item would
also be required to provide information in response to Part III, Items 15(a), (b), or (c) to inform
market participants how ECNs display trading interest.
Request for Comment
127. What information involving NMS stocks, government securities, and repos do ATSs or
Communication Protocol Systems display? Are there levels of displayed information that
a system may offer to market participants? If so, what are the levels and are there any
specific requirements for a market participant to access that information? For instance,
do ATSs or Communication Protocol Systems have different mechanisms or
functionalities for displaying trading interest depending on the subscriber? What
functionalities does the system use to display information in government securities and
repos? Please explain the purpose and operation of any such functionality.

619 Covered ATSs, as proposed, would be subject to the requirements of Rule 301(b)(10) and
would be required to establish adequate safeguards and procedures to protect subscribers’
confidential trading information, which must include: limiting access to the confidential
trading information of subscribers to those employees of the ATS who are operating the
system or responsible for its compliance with these or any other applicable rules; and
implementing standards controlling employees of the ATS trading for their own accounts.
See 17 CFR 242.301(b)(10).
620 Part III, Item 15(d) of revised Form ATS-N (which is currently included in Part III, Item
15(a) of current Form ATS-N) would be applicable only to NMS Stock ATSs because
Rule 600(a)(31) only applies to systems that trade NMS stocks. A Government
Securities ATS would select “no” in response to this question. The Commission is also
correcting a typo referencing Rule 600(a)(23) and replacing the reference with Rule
600(a)(31).
253
128. For ATSs or Communication Protocol Systems that display trading interest both on the
system and outside the system, what is the process for market participants to submit
trading interest to interact with the trading interest that is displayed outside the system?
129. Are there any aspects of display of trading interest on Government Securities ATSs that
should be specifically addressed in the Item? Are there any aspects of display that are
unique to Communication Protocol Systems?
p. Item 16: Routing
Part III, Item 16 is designed to provide information about whether trading interest in the
ATS can be routed or sent to a destination outside the ATS. As proposed, Part III, Item 16
would apply to both NMS Stock ATSs and Government Securities ATSs. In the Commission’s
experience, routing of government securities among trading venues is not as prevalent as in the
market for NMS stocks. To the extent it is inapplicable, a Government Securities ATS would
check “no” on Form ATS-N. However, Government Securities ATSs may have mechanisms to
send trading interest outside the ATS. Accordingly, the Commission is proposing to require
Covered ATSs to disclose whether they route or otherwise “send” trading interest outside of the
ATS. If the Covered ATS permits trading interest to be routed or sent to a destination outside of
the ATS, the ATS would be required to indicate whether affirmative instructions from a
subscriber must be obtained before its trading interest can be routed or sent from the ATS, and
provide a description of the affirmative instruction and explain how the affirmative instruction is
obtained. If the ATS is not required to obtain an affirmative instruction to route or send trading
interest, the ATS would be required to explain when trading interest can be routed or sent from
the ATS (e.g., at the discretion of the broker-dealer operator). The Commission believes that
such disclosures provide ATS participants with the ability to gauge how their trading interest
would be handled by the ATS. Subscribers might, for example, have concerns about the leakage
of confidential trading information when their orders are routed to other trading venues. The
254
Commission believes the disclosures in Part III, Item 16 would provide relevant information for
ATS participants to evaluate the potential for leakage of their confidential trading information.
The Commission is also proposing to relocate Part II, Items 1(d) and 2(d) of current Form
ATS-N to Part III, Item 16(c) of revised Form ATS-N.621 Specifically, proposed Item 16(c) of
revised Form ATS-N would request whether trading interest in the ATS can be routed or sent to
a destination operated or controlled by the broker-dealer operator or an affiliate of the brokerdealer. If yes, the ATS would be required to identify the destination and when and how trading
interest is routed or sent from the ATS to the destination. The Commission believes that such
information would help market participants evaluate whether the Covered ATS sending trading
interest to a trading venue operated or controlled by the broker-dealer operator or its affiliates
poses a conflict of interest and is consistent with its trading objectives.
Request for Comment
130. Do Government Securities ATSs (inclusive of Communication Protocol Systems, as
proposed) and Communication Protocol Systems that trade NMS stocks send trading
interest to destinations away from the system? If so, how and under what circumstances?
Are there any aspects about how trading interest is sent away from a Covered ATS that
should be addressed by Form ATS-N? Have the mechanisms for routing to a destination
outside an NMS Stock ATS changed in any way since the adoption of Form ATS-N for
NMS Stock ATSs? If so, do commenters believe that the Commission should require
Covered ATSs to provide additional information in Part III, Item 16 to reflect such
change?

621 As discussed above, the Commission believes it would be more efficient for market
participants and filers to consolidate the current disclosure in Part II, Items 1(d) and 2(d)
to proposed Part III, Item 16(c). See supra Section IV.D.4.a.
255
q. Item 17: Closing
Part III, Item 17 of Form ATS-N is designed to provide information about differences
between how trading interest is treated on the ATS during the ATS’s closing session(s)622 and
during regular trading hours established by the ATS. The Item is designed to provide market
participants with information about processes the Covered ATS uses to transition to the next
trading day, including whether the ATS offers any particular order types during a closing
session(s) or has different procedures for closing trading for a particular trading session and
transitioning trading to the next trading day. The vast majority of requests in Part III of revised
Form ATS-N relate to trading during the Covered ATS’s regular trading hours. Therefore, when
discussing differences between trading during the Covered ATS’s closing session(s) and during
regular trading hours set by the ATS, the Covered ATS would be required to discuss differences
as compared to relevant information disclosed in Part III Items, including, among others, order
types and sizes and trading facilities (Item 7), use of non-firm trading interest and
communication protocols and negotiation functionality (Item 8), segmentation and notice (Item
13), and display and visibility of trading interest (Item 15). The Commission believes this
information would be important for market participants to understand the closing procedures
around a particular trading session, if any, to carry out their trading objectives.623
r. Item 18: Fees
 622 The Commission is proposing to revise Item 17 of Form ATS-N to clarify that the
question relates to the ATS’s closing session(s), and that “regular trading hours” refers to
the ATS’s regular trading hours.
623 The Item would, for example, require disclosure of any procedures to match trading
interest to set a single closing price to maximize liquidity and accurately reflect market
conditions at the close of trading in the ATS.
256
Part III, Item 18 of Form ATS-N624 would require a Covered ATS to provide information
on any fees or charges for use of the ATS’s services, including any fees or charges for use of the
ATS’s services that are bundled with the subscriber’s use of non-ATS services or products
offered by the broker-dealer operator or its affiliates, and any rebate or discount of fees or
charges. The Commission believes that disclosures regarding fees on Form ATS-N are
necessary and important, and should not be voluntary for Covered ATSs. Fee disclosures on
Form ATS-N are designed to allow all market participants to analyze the fee structures across
Covered ATSs in an expedited manner and decide which ATS offers them the best pricing
according to the characteristics of their order flow, the type of participant they are (if relevant),
or any other aspects of an ATS’s fee structure that serves to provide incentives or disincentives
for specific market participants or trading behaviors. Requiring disclosures of ATS fees is
warranted as, in the Commission’s experience, fees can be a primary factor for market
participants in deciding where to send their trading interest.
Part III, Item 18 would request that Covered ATSs include in their descriptions the types
of fees, the structure of the fees, variables that impact the fees, and differentiation among types
of subscribers, and whether the fee is incorporated into the price displayed for a security, and
the Commission would provide examples of responsive information in a parenthetical in the text
of each subpart.625 The Item also would require a range for each type of fee (e.g., subscription,
connectivity, and market data) charged on the Covered ATS.

624 As discussed above, the Commission is proposing to delete current Part III, Item 18 of
Form ATS-N (Trading Outside of Regular Trading Hours) to combine such disclosure
requests with Part III, Item 4 (Hours of Operations). As a result of this deletion, the
Commission is proposing to re-number Part III, Items 19 through 26 of current Form
ATS-N. The discussion herein refers to the Items as proposed to be re-numbered.
625 The Commission is including non-exhaustive lists of examples of responsive information
in parentheticals in the text of the Item. For instance, for the description of the structure
of the fees, the Commission is providing as examples fixed, volume-based, and
257
The Commission is proposing to add the term “market data” to the examples listed in Part
III, Item 18 of the types of fees that a Covered ATS must disclose. For example, if a Covered
ATS distributed a market data feed and charged a fee for it, the ATS would be required to
provide the information responsive to Item 18 regarding that fee. The Commission believes this
example may be relevant to Government Securities ATSs, which are primarily lit venues that
offer market data to subscribers. While most NMS Stock ATSs do not disseminate market data,
a description of an NMS Stock ATS’s market data fees is currently required by the Item, which
requires disclosure of “any” fee or charge for use of the ATS services. Adding the example
could assist Covered ATSs in responding comprehensively to the Item.
The Commission recognizes that the fee structures of Covered ATSs can vary and that
not all Covered ATSs apply set tiers or categories of fees for subscribers; however, the
Commission believes that a market participant should have sufficient information to understand
the fees for using the services of the Covered ATS. Recognizing the various fees that can be
charged by Covered ATSs, the Commission is specifying in the fee request the types of
information that a Covered ATS must provide in response to the Commission’s proposed
request to describe its fees (e.g., the structure of the fees, variables that impact each fee,
differentiation among types of subscribers, and the range of fees). With regard to the variables
that impact the fees set, ATSs would be required to be specific and delineate how a given
variable would likely impact the fee level (e.g., higher or lower). In addition, the Commission
is proposing to add a new requirement not included in current Form ATS-N that the Covered
ATS must disclose whether the fee is incorporated into the price displayed for a security (e.g.,

transaction-based fee structures. For the description of variables that impact the fees, the
Commission is providing as examples: the types of securities traded, block orders, and
the form of connectivity to the ATS. For the description of the differentiation among
types of subscribers for the fee, the Commission is providing as examples the types of
subscribers: broker-dealers, institutional investors, and retail investors.
258
markups, markdowns). For example, the price displayed by the security may be higher (or
lower) than the market price, and the broker-dealer would be compensated by the difference
between the displayed price and the market price. The Commission believes that, in particular,
such fees or charges may be relevant to communication protocols that would be included under
the proposed definition of “exchange.”
These disclosures are designed to provide market participants with more insight
regarding the fees charged so that they can better understand how fees may apply to them and
assess how such fees may impact their trading strategies. Although the fees charged for
Covered ATS services may be individually negotiated between the broker-dealer operator and
the subscriber, the disclosures about the type of fees charged by the Covered ATS are designed
to help market participants discern how the ATS’s fees are organized and compare that
information across Covered ATSs, which could reduce the search costs of market participants in
deciding where to send their trading interest. The Commission believes that Covered ATSs
should be required to disclose differences in the treatment among “types of subscribers” (e.g.,
broker-dealers, institutional investors, retail). This information would allow subscribers to
observe whether a Covered ATS is offering preferential treatment for certain types of
subscribers with respect to fees.
Part III, Item 18(a) would cover charges to subscribers for their “use of the ATS
services”626 and would not request information on fees charged for non-ATS services by a third
party not in contract with the broker-dealer operator.627 Part III, Item 18(b) would require a
description of any bundled fees, including a summary of the bundled services and products

626 The Covered ATS services generally include those services used for the purpose of
effecting transactions in securities, or for submitting, disseminating, or displaying trading
interest in the ATS. See 17 CFR 242.300(b).
627 See NMS Stock ATS Adopting Release, supra note 2, at 38858 (discussing what fees
should be categorized as for use of the ATS’s services).
259
offered by the broker-dealer operator or its affiliates, the structure of the fee, variables that
impact the fee (including, for example, whether the particular broker-dealer services selected
would impact the fee), differentiation among types of subscribers, and range of fees. Part III,
Item 18(b) is designed to allow market participants to better evaluate fees for bundled services
and products that include access to the Covered ATS. Covered ATSs would be required to
provide information, including the relevant services and products offered by the broker-dealer
operator and its affiliates for each bundled fee offered, that will provide context to market
participants with which to assess how bundled fees could apply to them as subscribers.628
The disclosure requests under Part III, Item 18 would contain a stand-alone Item – Item
18(c) – which requests information about rebates and discounts of fees that are identified in
subparts (a) and (b) of Item 18. Item 18(c) would require information about rebates and
discounts that is similar to information required for fees (e.g., type of rebate or discount,
structure of the rebate or discount, variables that impact the rebate or discount, differentiation
among types of subscribers, and range of rebate or discount).
Request for Comment
131. What fees should the Commission require a Covered ATS subject to the Fair Access
Rule to disclose on Form ATS-N? Are there any fees disclosures that are unique to NMS
Stock ATSs or Government Securities ATSs and, if so, what information about those fees
should be disclosed on Form ATS-N?
132. What disclosures about bundled fees would be relevant and useful to potential and
current subscribers to the ATS?

628 See NMS Stock ATS Adopting Release, supra note 2, at 38858 (discussing responses to
current Item 19(b) (proposed Item 18(b)) depending on whether there is an explicit fee
for the ATS as part of any bundled services).
260
133. What fees should the Commission require a Communication Protocol System that
operates as a Covered ATS to disclose on Form ATS-N?
s. Item 19: Suspension of Trading
Part III, Item 19 of Form ATS-N would require a Covered ATS to provide information
about any procedures for suspending or stopping trading in the ATS, including the suspension of
trading in an NMS stock, U.S. Treasury Security, or an Agency Security.629 This Item is
designed to, for example, inform market participants of whether, among other things, a Covered
ATS will continue to accept trading interest after a suspension or stoppage occurs, whether the
ATS cancels, holds, or executes trading interest that was resting in the ATS before the
suspension or stoppage was initiated, and what type of notice the ATS provides to subscribers
regarding a suspension or stoppage. Examples of system disruptions would include, but are not
limited to, internal software problems that prevent the Covered ATS’s system from opening or
continuing trading,630 a significant increase in volume that exceeds the ability of the trading
system of the ATS to process incoming trading interest,
631 and the failure of the trading system
of the ATS to receive external pricing information that is used in the system’s pricing
methodology. Information regarding a Covered ATS’s procedures about how trading interest
might be handled by the ATS during a suspension or stoppage of trading would be useful to
market participants because an ATS’s procedures might require the cancelation of existing
trading interest or preclude the acceptance or execution of trading interest during a suspension,
both of which would impact a subscriber’s trading interest or its ability to trade in the ATS. This

629 The Commission is proposing to revise Form ATS-N, Part III, Item 19 of revised Form
ATS-N (numbered as Item 20 in current Form ATS-N) to reference trading in U.S.
Treasury Securities and Agency Securities.
630 See Regulation SCI Adopting Release, supra note 3, at 72254-55 n.28.
631 See id. at 72255 n.29.
261
information would better inform a subscriber’s trading decisions at the time of such an event and
thus help that subscriber accomplish its trading objectives. If a Covered ATS establishes
different procedures for suspending or stopping trading in the ATS depending on whether the
source of the disruption is internal or external, a description of both procedures would be
responsive to this request. In addition, this Item would require disclosure of procedures whereby
a Covered ATS suspends trading in NMS stocks, U.S. Treasury Securities, or Agency Securities
so that it does not cross the volume thresholds, as proposed herein, that may subject the ATS to
certain Federal securities laws, including the order display and execution access rule (Rule
301(b)(3)), Fair Access Rule, or Regulation SCI. Information regarding the procedures for how
a Covered ATS would handle trading interest during a suspension of trading or system disruption
or malfunction would help the Commission better monitor the securities markets.
Request for Comment
134. Should Form ATS-N request information about any procedures for suspending or
stopping trading that is particularly relevant to Government Securities ATSs (inclusive of
Communication Protocol Systems, as proposed) or Communication Protocol Systems that
trade NMS stock?
t. Item 20: Trade Reporting
Part III, Item 20 of Form ATS-N would require a Covered ATS to provide information on
any procedures and material arrangements for reporting transactions in the ATS.632 For
Government Securities ATSs, FINRA member firms are required to report transactions in U.S.
Treasury Securities and Agency Securities to TRACE.633

632 This question is substantially the same as Part III, Item 21 of current Form ATS-N.
633 See supra notes 228-229 and accompanying text.
262
Part III, Item 20 would require a Covered ATS to disclose its trade reporting procedures
for reporting transactions in the ATS to an SRO or any alternative trade reporting destinations, if
applicable. For example, it would be responsive to Item 20 for a Covered ATS to disclose
whether the ATS has a specific procedure for reporting transactions to the SRO at different times
based on, for example, a subscriber’s use of a particular order type, or the type of subscriber
involved in the transaction. Covered ATSs would also be required to disclose “material”
arrangements for reporting transactions in the ATS. The Commission recognizes that there could
be arrangements relevant to trade reporting, such as the specific software used to report, that play
a minor role in the ATS’s trade reporting and need not be disclosed. On the other hand, if a
Covered ATS uses another party to report transactions occurring in the ATS or has a backup
facility that it uses for trade reporting, that information is likely to be responsive as a material
arrangement. Requiring reporting only of material arrangements would limit potential burdens
on Covered ATSs while providing market participants with sufficient information to understand
how their trade information will be reported. Also, the proposed disclosure of the trade reporting
procedures would allow the Commission to more easily review the compliance of the Covered
ATS with its applicable trade reporting obligations as a registered broker-dealer as proposed
herein.
u. Item 21: Post-Trade Processing, Clearance, and Settlement
Part III, Item 21 is designed to provide information on any procedures and material
arrangements undertaken as a result of the contractual agreements between the broker-dealer
operator for the Covered ATS634 and the ATS’s participants to manage the post-trade processing,

634 The contractual obligations of the ATS are ultimately those of the broker-dealer operator.
Because an ATS must register as a broker-dealer, the broker-dealer operator controls the
ATS and is legally responsible for all operational aspects of the ATS and for ensuring
that the ATS complies with applicable Federal securities laws and the rules and
regulations thereunder. See NMS Stock ATS Adopting Release, supra note 2, at 38819.
263
clearance, and/or settlement of transactions on the Covered ATS. The Commission is proposing
revisions to Part III, Item 21 that would request information about post-trade processing, which
covers the steps taken after execution to prepare a trade for clearance and/or settlement. These
steps include, but are not limited to, routing trade information to relevant parties; enrichment of
trade details with supplemental information (such as counterparty account information) required
to effect settlement; performing allocations whereby a block trade is broken down into various
client accounts; comparing the terms of a trade submitted by each counterparty (performing
matching) to reconcile the terms so as to generate an affirmed confirm; performing sequential
affirmation and confirmation processes; or sending notifications to interested parties, such as
custodians. These types of activities can be performed both manually (with trading desk, middle
office, or back office personnel completing the steps) or through automated activity processes
(which seek to achieve the goal of straight-through processing whereby trade information passes
through the necessary steps to effect settlement in an automated manner).
The proposed revisions to Part III, Item 21 provide some specific examples of the types
of procedures and material arrangements that should be described by a Covered ATS under this
Item, such as whether the broker-dealer operator, or an affiliate of the broker-dealer operator
becomes a counterparty; submits trades to a registered clearing agency; requires subscribers to
have arrangements with a clearing firm, or terminates trades. These examples are intended to be
illustrative and not the only types of material arrangements that may exist. From Commission
staff’s experience reviewing Form ATS-N, the Commission understands that broker-dealer
operators have different arrangements and contractual obligations that are important to
understanding the clearance and settlement of transactions in the ATS.
A Covered ATS would also be required to describe any user requirements for such
procedures and material arrangements, including the type and extent of connectivity (e.g., FIX),
264
and whether the connectivity is to an order management system (OMS), execution management
system (EMS), end-of-month expirations (EOMS), clearinghouse/custodian, or other system.
The integrity of the trading markets depends on the prompt and accurate post-trade
processing, clearance, and/or settlement of securities transactions. For example, counterparties
to a trade face counterparty credit risk, regardless of whether they choose to clear and settle
bilaterally or through a central counterparty, and therefore knowledge of any specific
arrangements that are required by an ATS as part of the clearing process promotes market
integrity.635 The Covered ATS’s procedures or material arrangements that address post-trade
processing, clearance, and/or settlement are critical to ensuring that a buyer receives securities
and a seller receives proceeds in accordance with the agreed-upon terms of the trade by
settlement date. The disclosures required by this Item are intended to cover each of the steps in
the post-trade process from the time of execution (including whether the broker-dealer operator
or an affiliate of the broker-dealer operator is a counterparty to a transaction and whether the
obligations of a counterparty are ever assigned or novated), through trade matching or
affirmation/confirmation, and then through clearing procedures (including whether the Covered
ATS requires its participants to be a member of a registered clearing agency, whether
participants have any particular clearing obligations, and whether transactions are — wholly or
partially — submitted to a registered clearing agency or cleared bilaterally using clearing banks
or clearing agents), until settlement of the transaction (including whether counterparties make
use of custodians, settlement banks, or a registered clearing agency). If the Covered ATS has

635 See Treasury Market Practices Group (TMPG), White Paper on Clearing and Settlement
in the Secondary Market for U.S. Treasury Securities (July 12, 2018), available at
https://www.newyorkfed.org/medialibrary/Microsites/tmpg/files/CS-DraftPaper071218.pdf. “The TMPG found that many market participants do not understand the role
of the [interdealer brokers] platform in terms of who their counterparty credit risk was to
and the roles of various market participants in settlement and clearing.” Id. at 27.
265
adopted post-trade processing, clearing, and/or settlement processes or imposes any obligations
on its participants in the event of a disruption (for example, a failure to deliver securities, a
liquidity shortfall, or a counterparty default), this proposed Item should include a discussion of
these processes and any resulting participant obligations.
The Item requires the disclosure of “material” arrangements to manage the post-trade
processing, clearance, and/or settlement of transactions on the Covered ATS. For example, an
arrangement under which another party would have a role in clearance or settlement may
constitute a material arrangement that could trigger the disclosure requirement under Part III,
Item 21. Limiting the explanation required to material arrangements would reduce the burden on
Covered ATSs while at the same time still allowing market participants to understand and more
easily compare such arrangements required across Covered ATSs.
Proposed Part III, Item 21 is also designed to help market participants understand the
measures the Covered ATS takes to manage post-trade processing, clearance, and/or settlement
of transactions. Market participants should know and be able to understand any requirements a
Covered ATS places on its subscribers, or other persons whose trading interest is sent to the
ATS, to receive certain post-trade processing, clearance, and/or settlement services. The
Commission believes market participants would likely find the disclosures required by this Item
to be useful in understanding the measures undertaken by a Covered ATS to manage post-trade
processing, clearance, and/or settlement of subscriber orders in the ATS and allow them to more
easily compare these arrangements across Covered ATSs as part of deciding where to send their
trading interest. The Commission believes that these disclosures would assist the Commission in
better understanding the post-trade processing, clearance, and/or settlement procedures of
Covered ATSs and risks and trends in the market as part of its overall review of market structure.
266
Request for Comment
135. What aspects of the procedures and material arrangements undertaken to manage the
post-trade processing, clearance, and/or settlement of transactions on Covered ATSs are
important for ATSs to disclose on Form ATS-N for the benefit of market participants?
v. Item 22: Market Data
Part III, Item 22636 of Form ATS-N is designed to solicit information about the sources of
market data used by the Covered ATS and how the ATS uses that market data from these sources
to provide the services that it offers. As the Commission is proposing to apply Form ATS-N to
Government Securities ATSs, the Commission is proposing to add to Part III, Item 22 to include
“feeds from trading venues” in the examples of sources of market data, which may be applicable
to Government Securities ATSs. Specifically, market participants would likely find it useful to
know the source and specific purpose for which the market data is used by the Covered ATS, as
the market data received by the ATS might affect the price at which trading interest is prioritized
and executed, including trading interest that is pegged to an outside reference price. An NMS
Stock ATS, for example, would be required to provide the names of national securities
exchanges from which the ATS receives direct market data feeds, either from a vendor or
directly from the exchange, in addition to the specific types of market data received from each
source. In addition, a Covered ATS would be required to provide information about how the
ATS uses market data to provide the services it offers. To avoid duplicative disclosure, market
data reflecting options traded on government securities that is used by the ATS could be
discussed in response to proposed Part III, Item 11. The Commission is proposing to include
determining the best bid or offer (BBO) as an example of how the ATS uses market data, which
could be applicable to Government Securities ATSs. Among other things, Part III, Item 22

636 This Item is currently numbered as Part III, Item 23 of current Form ATS-N.
267
requires the disclosure of the use of market data to display, price, prioritize, execute, and remove
trading interest. As part of this explanation, the Covered ATS would be required to specify, if
applicable, when the ATS may change sources of market data to provide its services. A Covered
ATS would also be required to explain how market data is received by the ATS, compiled, and
delivered to the matching engine. For example, among other possible arrangements, a Covered
ATS could explain in response to the Item that market data is received and assembled by the
broker-dealer operator, and subsequently delivered to the matching engine, or that market data is
sent directly to the matching engine, which normalizes the data for its use.
Request for Comment
136. What are the sources of market data in NMS stocks, government securities, and repos
that are available to market participants as well as to Covered ATSs and how do market
participants and ATSs use this information? What disclosures about an ATS’s use of
market data would be important to market participants?
w. Item 23: Order Display and Execution Access
Part III, Item 23 is designed to provide information about whether an NMS Stock ATS is
required to comply with Rule 301(b)(3)(ii) of Regulation ATS.
637 The Commission is not
proposing to make changes to this Item, other than specifying that this Item would be applicable
to NMS Stock ATSs, as the order display and execution access provisions under Rule 301(b)(3)
only apply to an ATS’s NMS stock activities.638
x. Item 24: Fair Access

637 Part III, Item 23 of revised Form ATS-N (currently numbered as Part III, Item 24 of
current Form ATS-N) would be required only for NMS Stock ATSs, as the associated
rule is inapplicable to government securities. See also NMS Stock ATS Adopting
Release, supra note 2, at Section V.D.24.
638 17 CFR 242.301(b)(3).
268
Part III, Item 24 of Form ATS-N would provide a mechanism under which a Covered
ATS would notify market participants whether it has triggered the proposed fair access threshold
and, if so, whether the ATS is subject to the Fair Access Rule. As described above, the
Commission is proposing to require Government Securities ATSs to comply with the Fair
Access Rule if they meet the applicable thresholds.639 As a result, Part III, Item 24 would be
applicable to both NMS Stock ATSs and Government Securities ATSs that meet the applicable
thresholds. Pursuant to proposed Rule 301(b)(5)(ii), a Covered ATS would aggregate the trading
volume for a security or category of securities for ATSs that are operated by a common brokerdealer, or ATSs that are operated by affiliated broker-dealers for the purpose of calculating the
volume thresholds.640 In connection with proposed Rule 301(b)(5)(ii), the Commission is
proposing to require the Covered ATS to indicate in Part III, Item 24(a) through (c) if the ATS
crossed the volume thresholds “whether by itself or aggregated pursuant to Rule 301(b)(5)(ii).”
If a Covered ATS crosses the fair access thresholds, proposed Rule 301(b)(5)(iii)(A)641
requires the ATS to establish and apply reasonable written standards for granting, limiting, and
denying access to the services of the ATS.642 If subject to the Fair Access Rule, the Covered
ATS would be required to describe the reasonable written standards for granting, limiting, and
denying access to the services of the ATS pursuant to Rule 301(b)(5)(iii) of Regulation ATS (as
proposed to be applied herein).643 A description of the Covered ATS’s reasonable written

639 See supra Section III.D.
640 The Commission is proposing changes to the Fair Access Rule, which are discussed in
detail below. See infra Section V.A.2.
641 See infra Sections V.A.3 through V.A.4.
642 See 17 CFR 242.301(b)(5)(iii)(A). The Commission is proposing that any change in a
Covered ATS’s response to Item 24 would be filed as a contingent amendment. See
supra note 440 and accompanying text.
643 The Commission is proposing revisions to Part III, Item 24 (currently numbered as Part
III, Item 25) to conform to the proposed rule text of the Fair Access Rule, including rule
269
standards in response to Part III, Item 24 should be clear and comprehensive and should explain,
among other things, the objective and quantitative criteria upon which the ATS’s reasonable
written standards are based, any differences in access to the services of the ATS by applicant and
current participants, and why the standards including any differences in access to the services of
the ATS) are fair and not unreasonably discriminatory. To the extent another person performs a
function of the ATS, the ATS would be required to provide reasonable written standards for
granting, limiting, or denying access to the services performed by such person. In addition, an
NMS Stock ATS must provide the ticker symbol for each NMS stock for which the NMS Stock
ATS has exceeded the fair access threshold during each of the last 6 calendar months.
The Commission believes that the proposed disclosures would facilitate its oversight of
Covered ATSs and their compliance with Rule 301(b)(5) as proposed herein. In addition, the
proposed disclosures would allow market participants to assess whether fair access is, in fact,
being applied by a Covered ATS that meets the fair access threshold, in part by making publicly
available a description of the ATS’s written standards for granting access.
Request for Comment
137. Is there other information that market participants might find important or useful
regarding the reasonable written standards for granting, denying, and limiting access to
the services of a Covered ATS that is subject to the Fair Access Rule? If so, describe
such information and explain whether, and if so, why, such information should be
required to be provided on Form ATS-N.
y. Item 25: Aggregate Platform-Wide Data; Trading Statistics

re-numbering, describing the required written standards as “reasonable,” and to reference
standards limiting and denying access to the services of the ATS.
270
Part III, Item 25 of Form ATS-N644 is designed to make public aggregate, platform-wide
statistics that a Covered ATS already otherwise collects and publishes, or provides to one or
more subscribers to the ATS. The purpose of Item 25 is to place subscribers on a level playing
field with regard to aggregate, platform-wide statistics about the Covered ATS that the ATS
makes available.
As explained above, the Commission is proposing to amend Form ATS-N to solicit
information about the use of non-firm trading interest in the ATS, which relates to the proposed
changes to Exchange Act Rule 3b-16.645 Consistent with those proposed revisions, the
Commission also proposes to change the request for information on Part III, Item 25 to require
statistics beyond solely platform-wide order flow and execution statistics. Specifically, the
Commission proposes that Part III, Item 25 require a Covered ATS to disclose all aggregate,
platform-wide statistics that it publishes or provides to one or more subscribers. Such statistics
would include the order flow and execution data that is currently solicited in Form ATS-N. In
addition, the proposed disclosure request would require a Covered ATS to disclose statistics
related to use of non-firm trading interest. On an RFQ system, such statistics might include the
percentage or total number of timed-out inquiries (i.e., when a participant receives no prices or
other responses after posting an inquiry). With the use of a conditional order protocol, such
statistics could include market participants’ firm-up rates (e.g., the ATS sends a firm-up request
to participants after their conditional orders are matched).
While the Commission proposes to expand the scope of information that this Item would
solicit, the proposed disclosure request does not require a Covered ATS to create, maintain, or
publish any specific type of statistic. As is the case with the current requirement, this disclosure

644 This Item is currently numbered as Part III, Item 26 of current Form ATS-N.
645 See supra Section II.C.
271
request only requires a Covered ATS to publicly disclose any statistics within the scope of the
question that it already discloses to one or more subscribers. If a Covered ATS compiles a
particular statistic without distributing it (i.e., only uses it internally), it would not be required to
provide that statistic on Form ATS-N. Finally, as with current Part III, Item 26 (proposed to be
renumbered to Item 25), the proposed disclosure request does not require a Covered ATS to
provide on Form ATS-N any data that is otherwise required by 17 CFR 242.605 (Rule 605 of
Regulation NMS).646 A Covered ATS may choose to create and publish or provide to one or
more subscribers or persons aggregate, platform-wide statistics for different reasons. To the
extent that a Covered ATS has made a determination to create and publish or provide to
subscribers certain aggregate platform-wide data, the Commission believes that others may also
find such information useful when evaluating the ATS as a possible venue for their trading
interest.
As with the current disclosure request, the proposed disclosure request would not require
a Covered ATS to amend its Form ATS-N every time it receives a subscriber data request. To
comply with the proposed requirements under Part III, Item 25, Form ATS-N only requires a
Covered ATS to update its disclosures for Part III, Item 25 on a quarterly basis.647 For instance,
if a participant were to request updated or new aggregate platform-wide statistics in January, the
Covered ATS would not be required to immediately file an updating amendment containing
these statistics after complying with the participant’s request. Rather, the ATS would need to

646 See 17 CFR 242.605.
647 If, for example, a Covered ATS publishes or provides a particular statistic on a daily
basis, the ATS would include in Exhibit 4 of Form ATS-N the statistic that was published
or provided to one or more subscribers on the last trading day of the calendar quarter
(e.g., the statistic published or provided on June 30th or last trading day prior to June
30th). If a Covered ATS publishes or provides a particular statistic weekly, the ATS
would be required to include in Exhibit 4 of Form ATS-N the statistic that was published
or provided to one or more subscribers at the end of the week prior to the end of the
calendar quarter (e.g., the statistic published for the last full week of June).
272
file an updating amendment within 30 days following the end of March. That updating
amendment must contain the most recently distributed version of these statistics, as well as the
most recently distributed version of all other aggregate platform-wide data that was provided
during that quarter. The Commission notes that communications associated with the responsive
statistics are not required to be publicly filed. In the prior example, for instance, if the statistics
provided in the quarterly amendment are the ones provided in January (i.e., those are the latest
version of those aggregate platform-wide statistics the ATS distributed), the ATS would not (and
should not) also attach to Form ATS-N the participant’s email requesting the statistics.
Furthermore, Part III, Item 25 of Form ATS-N would only require a Covered ATS to
publicly disclose aggregate platform-wide data. As such, a Covered ATS would not be required
to disclose individualized or custom reports containing data relating to that participant’s specific
usage of the ATS. For example, an individual participant’s trade reports, order and execution
quality statistics, and other statistics specific to a participant’s trading in the ATS would not be
covered by the disclosure request in Part III, Item 25. A Covered ATS would need to
independently evaluate any statistics that it compiles and distributes to determine whether they
are responsive to this disclosure request.
Part III, Item 25 would require the Covered ATS to attach both the responsive statistics
and its explanation of the categories or metrics of the statistics and the criteria or methodology
used to calculate those statistics as Exhibits 4 and 5, respectively. Also, in lieu of filing Exhibits
4 and 5, the Covered ATS could certify that the information requested under Exhibits 4 and 5 is
available at the website provided in Part I, Item 6 of the form and is accurate as of the date of the
filing. The Commission is proposing to add to the instruction that if the ATS selects the
checkbox, the ATS will maintain its website in accordance with the rules for amending Form
ATS-N pursuant to Rule 304(a)(2)(i) to reflect any changes to such information. This would
require an ATS checking the box to update its website as if it were Form ATS-N, and therefore,
273
to update the information, as appropriate pursuant to the Commission’s rules for amending Form
ATS-N.
Request for Comment
138. Does Part III of Form ATS-N capture the information that is most relevant to
understanding the operations of the Government Securities ATS and the use of non-firm
trading interest on Communication Protocol Systems? Are there any Items that
commenters believe are unnecessary? If so, why?
139. Should the Commission expand what Covered ATSs must disclose on Form ATS-N? Is
there other information that market participants might find relevant or useful regarding
the operations of Covered ATSs that should be publicly disclosed? If so, describe such
information and explain whether, and if so, why, such information should be required to
be provided under Form ATS-N.
140. Is there any information related to repos that Form ATS-N should require?
141. Is there any information related to options on government securities that Form ATS-N
should require?
142. Is there any information that would be required by Part III of Form ATS-N that a
Covered ATS should not be required to disclose due to concerns regarding
confidentiality, business reasons, trade secrets, commercially sensitive information,
burden, or any other concerns?
143. Should the Commission adopt a more limited or expansive definition of “affiliate” for
purposes of Part III?648

648 See supra note 533 for the definition of affiliate under Form ATS-N.
274
144. Would the disclosures under Part III of Form ATS-N help market participants better
evaluate trading opportunities and decide where to send trading interest to reach their
trading objectives?
145. Would the proposed disclosures in Part III of Form ATS-N require a Government
Securities ATS to reveal too much (or not enough) information about its structure and
operations?
146. Are there ways to obtain the same information as would be required from Government
Securities ATSs by Part III of Form ATS-N other than through disclosure on Form ATSN? If so, how else could this information be obtained?
147. Could the proposed requirement to disclose the information that would be required by
Part III of Form ATS-N impact innovation in Government Securities ATSs?
148. Are there any aggregate platform-wide statistics of the Covered ATS that should not be
required to be disclosed under Item 25?
149. Has Form ATS-N allowed market participants to better evaluate trading venues? If so,
how? How do commenters believe the manner in which NMS Stock ATSs currently
disclose information on Form ATS-N could be improved? Is the level of detail required
appropriate? Are there any aspects of Form ATS-N on which the Commission should
provide further guidance?
6. Part IV: Contact Information, Signature Block, and Consent to Service
Part IV of Form ATS-N would require a Covered ATS to provide certain basic
information about the point of contact for the ATS, such as the point of contact’s name, title,
telephone number, and email address. Part IV would also require the Covered ATS to consent to
service of any civil action brought by, or any notice of any proceeding before, the Commission
or an SRO in connection with the ATS’s activities. The Commission is proposing that Form
275
ATS-N would be filed electronically and require an electronic signature.649 The signatory to
each Form ATS-N filing would be required to represent that the information and statements
contained on the submitted Form ATS-N, including exhibits, schedules, attached documents, and
any other information filed, are current, true, and complete. Given that market participants
would use information disclosed on Form ATS-N to evaluate potential venues, and that the
Commission intends to use the information to monitor developments of Covered ATSs, it is
important that Form ATS-N contain disclosures that are current, true, and complete, and
therefore the Commission is proposing to require that the signatory to Form ATS-N make such
an attestation.
V. Proposed Amendments to Form ATS, Form ATS-R, and Other Conditions to
Regulation ATS
A.Proposed Amendments to the Fair Access Rule for all ATSs
In addition to the amendments to the Fair Access Rule for Government Securities
ATSs,650 the Commission is proposing several amendments to the Fair Access Rule that would
apply to all ATSs that are subject to the rule. The proposed amendments are discussed below.
1. Rule Text Clarifications
The Commission is re-proposing to amend the Fair Access Rule, as well as the Capacity,
Integrity, and Security Rule under Rule 301(b)(6), to specify the use of volume to calculate the
relevant thresholds under the rule. For purposes of determining whether an ATS crossed the
average daily volume thresholds for compliance with the Fair Access Rule, Rule 301(b)(5)(i)

649 To avoid confusion, the Commission is proposing to delete language in the signature
block in Part IV of Form ATS-N that refers to the signatory as “duly sworn.” The
Commission notes that unlike Form ATS, Form ATS-N filings, which are submitted to
EDGAR, are not required to be notarized; instead, they are subject to the rules governing
electronic signatures set forth in 17 CFR 232.302 (Rule 302 of Regulation S-T). See 17
CFR 232.302.
650 See supra Section III.B.4.
276
does not specify whether the ATS’s transaction volume in an NMS stock or an equity security
that is not an NMS stock and for which transactions are reported to an SRO is calculated using
the dollar or the share volume.651 In the Regulation ATS Adopting Release, when discussing the
Fair Access Rule, the Commission stated that for these two types of securities, the test should be
based on the share volume.652 Similarly, Rules 301(b)(5)(i) and (b)(6)(i) do not specify whether,
for purposes of determining compliance with the Fair Access Rule and the Capacity, Integrity,
and Security Rule, the volume for municipal securities or corporate debt securities is calculated
based on the dollar or the share volume.653 In the Regulation ATS Adopting Release, the
Commission intended the test applicable to debt securities to be based on the dollar volume.654
To mitigate any potential confusion, the Commission is adding these terms to Rules 301(b)(5)(i)
and (b)(6)(i) to align the rule text with the Regulation ATS Adopting Release.655
The Commission is also re-proposing to amend Rules 301(b)(5)(i)(C) and (D) to clarify
that the average daily dollar volume in municipal securities is provided by the SRO to which
such transactions are reported and average daily dollar volume in corporate debt securities is

651 17 CFR 242.301(b)(5)(i)(A)-(B).
652 See Regulation ATS Adopting Release, supra note 31, at 70873 (“Accordingly, if an
[ATS] accounted for twenty percent or more of the share volume in any equity security, it
must comply with the fair access requirements in granting access to trading in that
security.”) (emphasis added).
653 17 CFR 242.301(b)(5)(i)(C)-(D); 17 CFR 242.301(b)(6)(i)(A)-(B).
654 See Regulation ATS Adopting Release, supra note 31, at 70873, 70875 (requiring
compliance with the Fair Access Rule and the Capacity, Integrity, and Security Rule if an
ATS accounted for more than 20 percent of the total “share volume” in a security with
respect to equity securities, and for more than 20 percent of the “volume” in a security
with respect to debt securities). While Form ATS-R requires an ATS to report total
volume in terms of both units and dollars for equity securities, it requires an ATS to
report the total settlement value only in dollar terms for municipal securities and
corporate debt securities. See id. at 70878.
655 See proposed Rule 301(b)(5)(i)(A)-(D); proposed Rule 301(b)(6)(i)(A)-(B).
277
provided by the SRO to which such transactions are reported.656 When Regulation ATS was
adopted, transaction reporting plans for municipal securities and corporate debt securities were
being developed.657 Today, transactions in municipal securities are reported to the MSRB and
transactions in corporate debt securities are reported to FINRA. These two SROs provide the
information that can be used by ATSs to determine whether the ATS is subject to the Fair Access
Rule for these two categories of securities.658 This amendment will add clarity to the rule given
the established transaction reporting regimes for municipal securities and corporate debt
securities.
2. Aggregation of Volume Threshold for Affiliated ATSs
The Commission is also proposing to amend the Rule 301(b)(5)(ii) of the Fair Access
Rule to aggregate the trading volume for a security or category of securities for ATSs that are
operated by a common broker-dealer, or ATSs that are operated by affiliated broker-dealers,
solely for the purpose of calculating the average transaction volume under Rule 301(b)(5)(i)(A)
through (F).659 Today, there are single entities that may be the registered broker-dealer operator

656 To the extent transactions are reported to multiple SROs, the volume of transactions
reported to such SROs would be combined for the purpose of calculating whether the
transactions meet the threshold.
657 See Regulation ATS Adopting Release, supra note 31, at 70873.
658 See MSRB Rule G-14; FINRA Rule 6730. Electronic Municipal Market Access
(“EMMA”), which is a service operated by the MSRB, and FINRA disseminate
information on transactions in municipal securities and corporate debt securities,
respectively. See EMMA Information Facility, available at https://www.msrb.org/Rulesand-Interpretations/MSRB-Rules/Facilities/EMMA-Facility.aspx; FINRA Rule 6750.
659 For Rule 301(b)(5)(ii), the Commission would refer to the definition of affiliate used for
purposes of Form ATS-N. See NMS Stock ATS Adopting Release, supra note 2, at
38818-19. Affiliate was defined to mean “with respect to a specified Person, any Person
that, directly or indirectly, controls, is under common control with, or is controlled by,
the specified Person.” Id. The Commission is proposing to include the definition of
affiliate in proposed Rule 300(c). The currently defined term “affiliate of a subscriber” in
Rule 300(c) is not currently used in Regulation ATS, and the Commission is therefore
replacing such term with the definition of “affiliate.” The proposed amended definition
278
for different types of ATSs that trade different categories of securities (e.g., NMS Stock ATS and
non-NMS Stock ATS), and there are broker-dealers that may operate multiple ATSs that trade
the same type of securities with different matching protocols (e.g., limit order book for one and
volume-weighted-average-price for the other). Likewise, there are entities that control multiple
subsidiary broker-dealers, each of which operates one or more ATS or Communication Protocol
System that trade the same or different categories of securities.
660 In these instances, each ATS
with a common broker-dealer operator – and each of the affiliated Communication Protocol
Systems that would be subject to Regulation ATS under this proposal – must comply with
Regulation ATS.661

of “affiliate” would help ATSs determine whether to aggregate the trading volume of
ATSs operated by affiliated broker-dealer operators. The proposed definition of
“affiliate” is identical to the definition of affiliate in Form ATS-N Explanation of Terms.
Like the definition of “affiliate of a subscriber” under current Rule 300(c), the proposed
definition of “affiliate” would include a specified person that, directly or indirectly,
controls, is under common control with, or is controlled by, the specified person, and
therefore would include employees of the specified person.
660 The term “control” is defined in Rule 300(f) of Regulation ATS to mean: the power,
directly or indirectly, to direct the management or policies of the broker-dealer of an
alternative trading system, whether through ownership of securities, by contract, or
otherwise. A person is presumed to control the broker-dealer of an alternative trading
system if that person: is a director, general partner, or officer exercising executive
responsibility (or having similar status or performing similar functions); directly or
indirectly has the right to vote 25 percent or more of a class of voting securities or has the
power to sell or direct the sale of 25 percent or more of a class of voting securities of the
broker-dealer of the alternative trading system; or in the case of a partnership, has
contributed, or has the right to receive upon dissolution, 25 percent or more of the capital
of the broker-dealer of the alternative trading system. 17 CFR 242.300(f). See also NMS
Stock ATS Adopting Release, supra note 2, at 38818-19 (discussing definition of
control).
661 See Rule 3a1-1(a)(2) (providing that an organization, association, or group of persons
shall be exempt from the definition of “exchange” if it is in compliance with Regulation
ATS) and Rule 301(a) (providing that an ATS shall comply with the requirements of
Rule 301(b)).
279
In response to the 2020 Proposal, one commenter stated that because each ATS is unique,
it believed that for purposes of determining whether an ATS should be subject to the Fair Access
Rule, volume should be determined at an individual ATS level and not aggregated across
commonly controlled ATSs.662 The commenter stated that a broker-dealer may choose to
operate separate ATSs based on separate business units within the broker-dealer, different
technology backbones, or different types of functionality, such as anonymous or fully disclosed
order books or auction-based offerings.663
The Commission is concerned, however, that despite differences that may exist between
ATSs that are operated by a common broker-dealer or ATSs operated by affiliated brokerdealers, there is a potential for a broker-dealer operator or controlling entity for more than one
broker-dealer to structure its business to avoid triggering the fair access thresholds, and thereby
circumvent the Fair Access Rule. It could do this by establishing multiple ATSs under one
broker-dealer, or establishing multiple broker-dealers that each operate an ATS, to trade the
same security or category of securities. The Fair Access Rule is designed to ensure that market
participants have reasonable access to ATS market places that capture a significant percentage of
national trading volume for a security or type of security. When a single entity operates multiple
market places, that entity ultimately controls which market participants have access to trading
across those market places.
When an organization, such as a broker-dealer, for example, provides an exchange
market place for the same security or category of security but chooses to divide the market place
into component parts by filing multiple Forms ATS or Forms ATS-N rather than filing a single
form encompassing all the component market places, that organization is still the exchange

662 See ICE Bonds Letter I at 6.
663 See id.
280
providing a market place to bring together buyers and sellers of securities and ultimately controls
access to the entire security or category of securities that it makes available for trading across its
multiple ATSs. In the Commission’s experience, ATSs under common operation of a brokerdealer generally are designed to function as complementary products of a single business of the
broker-dealer as opposed to separate market places competing against each other for order flow
in the same security or types of securities. In the Commission’s experience, it is typical for a
broker-dealer that operates multiple ATSs for the same security or category of securities to use,
for example, the same operations, technology, and administrative personnel for purposes of its
ATSs’ trading operations. Furthermore, a single entity controlling multiple ATSs often applies
similar standards for granting access across all of its ATSs that trade the same security or
category of security and applies the same market data, clearance, settlement, and trade reporting
processes, and procedures for protecting subscriber confidential trading information. Even in the
case of a single parent company, for example, which controls several affiliated broker-dealers
that each operate an ATS for the same category of security, access to each ATS is obtained from
the broker-dealer operator, and each broker-dealer operator is subject to the direction of the
parent company. Ultimately, those ATSs serve the business interests of, and are under common
control by, the parent company.
Aggregating trading volume among ATS market places and Communication Protocol
Systems that would be subject to Regulation ATS under this proposal – either operated by a
common broker-dealer or by affiliated broker-dealers – would help further the vital policy goal
of ensuring that no single entity is able to restrict fair access to a security or type of security. As
a result of this proposed change, if, for example, a broker-dealer operated two NMS Stock ATSs
that each accounted for three percent of the average daily volume in an NMS stock during at
least four of the preceding six calendar months, both NMS Stock ATSs would be subject to the
Fair Access Rule for that security because their aggregated volume exceeds the five percent
281
threshold of Rule 301(b)(5)(i)(A).664 If, instead, one of the ATSs had six percent of the average
daily volume for an NMS stock and the other ATS had one percent, both NMS Stock ATSs
would be subject to the Fair Access Rule as a result of their common broker-dealer operator and
aggregated volume. In another example, if two broker-dealers that are subsidiaries of the same
parent company each operate an ATS for corporate bonds and each ATS accounts for three
percent of the average daily volume of corporate bonds traded in the United States during at least
four of the preceding six calendar months, then both ATSs would be subject to the Fair Access
Rule. This result would be because the ATSs are operated by affiliated broker-dealers and their
aggregate volume exceeds the volume threshold of Rule 301(b)(5)(i)(C).
3. Reasonable Written Standards
The Commission is proposing to amend the requirements related to reasonable written
standards.665 The Commission is proposing Rule 301(b)(5)(iii)(A) to provide that the ATS
“establish and apply reasonable written standards for granting, limiting, and denying access to
the services of the alternative trading system.” As discussed in more detail below, the
Commission is proposing to add the word “reasonable” before “written standards” to incorporate
the concept that is part of current Rule 301(b)(5)(ii)(B) (“not unreasonably prohibit or limit”) and
used in the Regulation ATS Adopting Release.666 The Commission is also adding in the rule

664 Also, if one of the ATSs operated by the common broker-dealer operator accounted for
five percent of the average daily volume in an NMS stock for three months and the other
ATS accounted for five percent of the average daily volume in the same NMS stock for
the subsequent three months, then both ATSs would be subject to the Fair Access Rule
for that NMS stock because aggregated they would have crossed the volume threshold for
more than four of the preceding six calendar months.
665 These requirements are currently in Rule 301(b)(5)(ii), which the Commission is
proposing to re-number as Rule 301(b)(5)(iii).
666 See Regulation ATS Adopting Release, supra note 31, at 70872. The Commission
believes that the addition of “reasonable” is consistent with its intent as expressed in the
Regulation ATS Adopting Release. Specifically, in discussing the Fair Access Rule, the
Commission stated that “fair treatment . . . is particularly important” when ATSs reach
282
text, for the removal of any doubt, that the ATS must “apply” the reasonable written standards as
established. For example, if an ATS establishes a written standard that states subscribers’
trading interest will not be displayed to anyone, but the ATS in practice displays trading interest
to a subscriber, then the ATS would not be applying its established written standards.
Establishing the written standard is not sufficient if the ATS is not following or applying them.
Also incorporated into proposed Rule 301(b)(5)(iii)(A), and taken from current Rule
301(b)(5)(ii)(B), is that the written standards apply to access of “the services of the alternative
trading system.” This addition to the rule text serves to emphasize that the Fair Access Rule
applies not only to the initial grant or denial of access to an applicant of the ATS, but also to the
services of the ATS that are offered to current participants. ATS services, including, among
others, the provision of market data, order entry functionalities, priority rules, segmentation
procedures, negotiation features, communication protocols, counterparty selection, and order
types offered, would all be subject to the provisions of the Fair Access Rule. The Commission is
also incorporating from current Rule 301(b)(5)(ii)(B) that the Fair Access Rule applies when
limiting and denying access to the ATS services, not solely granting access.667 The application
of the Fair Access Rule to limitations and denials of access would help ensure that market
participants receive the full benefits of participation in an ATS subject to the Fair Access Rule
unless a limitation or denial of access can be reasonably justified.
As indicated above, the Commission is making explicit in the text of Rule 301(b)(5) that
the written standards required under the Fair Access Rule must be reasonable. An ATS subject
to the Fair Access Rule is not required to treat all participants the same in all instances; however,

significant volume in a security, and the rule would serve to prohibit “unreasonably”
discriminatory denials of access.
667 Rule 301(b)(5)(ii)(B) states that the ATS shall not “unreasonably prohibit or limit”
(emphasis added) any person with respect to the services of the ATS.
283
the Fair Access Rule has always required that an ATS subject to the rule provide reasonable
access to ATS services.
668 The Commission is revising the rule text to make it clear that the
written standards must be reasonable. For an ATS’s written standards to be reasonable, the
standards must be fair and not unreasonably discriminatory. Some ATSs, for example, might
offer different services, or levels of a service, to one subscriber or among different classes of
subscribers. An ATS subject to the Fair Access Rule could not provide services to one class of
participants and not to other classes of participants unless the ATS established standards with a
reasonable basis for treating the participant classes differently. For example, as stated in the
Regulation ATS Adopting Release, an ATS may establish a standard that requires all participants
be registered broker-dealers and that ATS may deny access to the ATS to any applicant that is
not a registered broker-dealer.669 As part of its reasonable analysis, an ATS subject to the Fair
Access Rule must explain why the standard for admitting registered broker-dealers rather than
non-registered broker-dealers is fair and not unreasonably discriminatory.670 Fees can be a
manner of limiting or denying services. In another example, an ATS that charges certain fees to
one class of participants but different fees to another class of participants for the same service
could not, if it were subject to the Fair Access Rule, discriminate in this manner unless it adopted
reasonable written standards and applied them in a fair and non-discriminatory manner. Also, to
apply the standards fairly and non-discriminatorily, the ATS’s activities (or the activities of
persons performing a function of the ATS) must be carried out in accordance with the
established written standards of the ATS.

668 See supra notes 666-667.
669 See Regulation ATS Adopting Release, supra note 31, at 70874.
670 See proposed Rule 301(b)(5)(iii)(A)(4).
284
When assessing the reasonableness of standards under the Fair Access Rule, the
Commission may consider principles applied in the national securities exchange context to guide
its analysis of whether an ATS’s written standards are fair and not unreasonably discriminatory.
Under Section 6(b)(5) of the Exchange Act, for example, a national securities exchange must
show that its rules are not designed to permit unfair discrimination between customers, issuers,
brokers or dealers.671 Sections 6(b)(2) and 6(c) of the Exchange Act require national securities
exchanges to consider the public interest in administering their markets and to establish rules
designed to admit members fairly.
672 National securities exchanges and ATSs are regulated
pursuant to separate statutory and rule provisions of the Federal securities laws and there are
different benefits and burdens associated with each entity; however, as the Commission stated in
the Regulation ATS Adopting Release, fair access requirements are based on the principle that
qualified market participants should have fair access to the U.S. securities markets, and such
markets would include ATSs subject to the Fair Access Rule.673
The justification provided for why each written standard is fair and not unreasonably
discriminatory is an important aspect of an ATS’s compliance with the Fair Access Rule as
proposed to be amended. The same limitation or restriction on different ATSs may be unfair on
one ATS and not another depending on the design of the ATS and its rationale for such a
limitation. One commenter suggested that fair access is not applicable to fixed income platforms
where each participant has discretion over which other participants they want to trade with.
674
Under these circumstances where ATS participants can select their potential counterparties, the
Commission would view an ATS that implements the participant’s choices as having adopted

671 15 U.S.C. 78f(b)(5).
672 15 U.S.C. 78f(b)(2) and (c).
673 See Regulation ATS Adopting Release, supra note 31, at 70874.
674 See MarketAxess Letter at 10.
285
those as ATS standards. As a result, the ATS subject to the Fair Access Rule would need to
establish reasonable written standards that, among other things, justify why the differences in
access between the selected and not-selected counterparties are fair and non-discriminatory and
thus reasonable. For example, if subscribers selected their counterparties based on the condition
of the counterparty’s balance sheet (e.g., totals for assets and liabilities), and the ATS
implemented those selections, then the ATS would need to include a justification in its written
standards for why implementing those selections is fair and not unreasonably discriminatory.675
In cases where the Commission staff reviews an ATS’s fair access standards, whether in the
description provided under Item 24 of revised Form ATS-N for NMS Stock ATSs and
Government Securities ATSs (as proposed) or during an examination, the Commission staff
would review whether a given justification for the standard is, for example, unreasonably
discriminatory, or is pretextual and, in fact, designed to thwart the goal of providing fair access
to qualified market participants.
676
Even if an ATS’s written standard is equally applicable to all participants, the ATS must
nevertheless ensure the standard itself is not unfair or unreasonably discriminatory or applied in
an unfair or unreasonably discriminatory manner. If an ATS included in its written standards

675 In practice, the ATS participant making a selection of its potential counterparties would
need to provide the ATS with its justification for selecting those counterparties, and the
ATS would need to evaluate whether the stated justification comports with the Fair
Access Rule, and if so, incorporate it into the ATS’s established written standards.
676 Rule 301(b)(5)(ii)(D) requires ATSs to report to the Commission information on Form
ATS-R regarding grants, limitations, and denial of access to an ATS subject to the Fair
Access Rule. Specifically, Form ATS-R, Exhibit C requires the ATS to list of all persons
granted, denied, or limited access to the ATS during the period covered by the report,
designating for each person whether they were granted, denied, or limited access; the date
the ATS took such action; the effective date of such action; and the nature of any denial
on limitation of access. The Commission stated in the Regulation ATS Adopting Release
that the Commission intended to enforce the Fair Access Rule by reviewing Form ATS-R
reports and investigating any possible violations of the rules. See Regulation ATS
Adopting Release, supra note 31, at 70874.
286
that it reserves the right to accept or deny applicants to the ATS at its sole discretion, such
standard may apply equally to all applicants, but it would not be reasonable as it would
contradict the rule’s goal of promoting fair access to the securities markets. In another example,
if an ATS adopts a written standard that it would only accept participants with “industry-leading
reputations,” such written standard, depending on the justification, is unlikely to be considered
reasonable because of its subjectivity and potential substantial limiting effect on market
participants’ access to the ATS. As stated in the Regulation ATS Adopting Release, if an ATS
applied its standards so as to discriminate among similarly-situated participants, such actions
would be inconsistent with reasonable written standards because the ATS would not be acting
impartially. One example of this would be an ATS that provides liquidity providers that met
certain volume thresholds with trading privileges, yet does not provide those privileges equally
to every qualifying liquidity provider. Another example would be a Communication Protocol
System that establishes a standard to track all participants’ “firm up” rates in response to requests
for quotes but subsequently denies or limits access to only certain subscribers that exceed the
firm-up threshold and not to other participants who likewise exceeded the firm-up threshold.
The Commission is also proposing Rule 301(b)(5)(iii)(A)(1) through (5) to provide
minimum requirements for the reasonable written standards that must be established, and
applied, by an ATS that is subject to the Fair Access Rule. These minimum requirements for
what the written standards must include do not alter the substantive requirement that the written
standards be reasonable. Rather, they explain in more granular detail what is required to be
sufficient written standards to facilitate compliance. First, the Commission is proposing Rule
301(b)(5)(iii)(A)(1) to require that an ATS’s reasonable written standards provide the dates that
each written standard is adopted, effective, and, if applicable, modified. This proposed
requirement is designed to assist Commission examination staff in their evaluation of the
287
application of an ATS’s written standards as well as help the staff understand the written fair
access standards that were in place at a given time.
Second, the Commission is proposing Rule 301(b)(5)(iii)(A)(2) to require an ATS’s
reasonable written standards set forth any objective and quantitative criteria upon which each
standard is based.677 Objective or quantitative standards can help demonstrate an ATS’s
compliance with the Fair Access Rule by limiting an ATS’s discretion and its ability to act
arbitrarily with respect to an applicant to the ATS or current participant. Nevertheless, an ATS’s
objective or quantitative standards must still be fair and not unreasonably discriminatory. An
ATS could not, for example, establish, without reasonable justification, a quantitative standard at
such a high level that it unfairly results in only a limited group of ATS participants that can meet
it. If an ATS, for example, sets its required firm up rate on conditional orders at 95 percent,
compliance with the Fair Access Rule would depend on whether that standard was fair and
whether it unreasonably discriminated against those subscribers that did not attain a 95 percent
firm up rate.678
In the case of an ATS that segments the order flow of its participants into certain
categories based on quantitative metrics, such as reversion rates,679 the ATS’s standards

677 See Regulation ATS Adopting Release, supra note 31, at 70874 (providing minimum
capital or credit requirements for subscribers as an example of objective standards).
678 In assessing whether such a standard is reasonable, the Commission could consider,
among other things, the quantitative criteria upon which the standard is based, the
justification by the ATS for why the standard is fair and not unreasonably discriminatory,
the differences in, and impact on, access to services from the application of the standard,
and other information provided through discussions with the ATS.
679 In the Commission’s experience, a common method for ATSs to segment order flow is to
measure a security’s change in price within a certain (usually short) time period after an
execution and, based on that figure or reversion rate, assign a score to one or both of the
parties to the transaction. If a security’s price moves substantially after an execution,
then that subscriber’s (or subscribers’) score may cause it to be segmented into a class of
subscribers that is considered riskier to trade against and other subscribers may select to
288
generally should include, among other things, the metrics and factors used to determine the
segmented categories and, as explained further below, how the metrics and factors are fair and
not unreasonably discriminatory, and thus are reasonable. The presence of the objective and
quantitative thresholds limits the ATS’s discretion in differentiating among participants (in this
example, by setting segmented categories for order interaction and thus denying certain
participants the ability to interact with other participants on the ATS). The quantitative threshold
still must be reasonable; an objective or quantitative standard would not by itself be sufficient to
comply with fair access. In cases where an ATS has a written standard for access that is not
based on objective or quantitative criteria, the ATS must still justify why the standard is
reasonable, and more specifically, how such standard is fair and not unreasonably
discriminatory.
Third, the Commission is proposing Rule 301(b)(5)(iii)(A)(3) to require that an ATS’s
reasonable written standards identify any differences in access to the services of the ATS by
applicants and current participants. The purpose of this provision is to highlight each instance
where an ATS treats participants differently under the established written standards. Under the
Fair Access Rule, ATSs may provide different services to different subscribers, or may vary how
services are offered among ATS participants; however, the ATS must have a reasonable basis for
doing so. An ATS might, for example, segment participant order flow into specific categories
(i.e., based upon the type of market participant generating the order flow) to determine order
interaction. As a result, some subscribers can only interact with certain subscribers and not
others. In such a case, the ATS would be required to, among other things, identify the
segmentation categories and criteria used to set the categories. If, for example, an ATS grants

not trade against that subscriber. Subscribers are assigned scores based on their reversion
rates and segmented into classes or categories accordingly.
289
certain trading privileges, such as being able to view certain trading interest, to a person
classified as a liquidity provider, the ATS would be required to describe any such differences in
treatment for the liquidity provider. The identification of differences in treatment required would
also include those applicable to applicants to the ATS. For example, if an ATS had different
minimum capital and credit requirements for applicants to the ATS, the ATS would need to
identify the differences in its written standards. As described above, differences in access must
be reasonable and the ATS would be required to justify how such differences in access are fair
and not unreasonably discriminatory pursuant to proposed Rule 301(b)(5)(iii)(A)(4).
Fourth, the Commission is proposing Rule 301(b)(5)(iii)(A)(4) to require that an ATS’s
reasonable written standards justify why each standard, including any differences in access to the
services of the ATS, is fair and not unreasonably discriminatory. While the Fair Access Rule
does not require that the ATS treat all market participants equally, the Fair Access Rule requires
an ATS to have a reasonable basis for not treating market participants equally. Accordingly, an
ATS would be required to justify in writing why its standards are fair and not unreasonably
discriminatory.680 Requiring an ATS to justify its fair access standards in writing would
facilitate Commission staff review of those standards, whether by reviewing the standards in the
description provided under Item 24 of revised Form ATS-N for NMS Stock ATSs and
Government Securities ATSs (as proposed) or during an examination of an ATS. Above, the
Commission sets forth an example of an ATS establishing different minimum capital and credit
requirements for applicants to the ATS. In addition to identifying that difference in its written
standards, the ATS would also be required to justify why the difference is fair and not
 680 As the Commission is proposing to relocate these requirements under the requirements
for an ATS’s written standards under Rule 301(b)(5)(iii)(A), the Commission is
proposing to delete the rule text under current Rule 301(b)(5)(ii)(B) and renumber current
paragraphs (b)(5)(ii)(B) and (C) to paragraphs (b)(5)(ii)(C) and (D), respectively.
290
unreasonably discriminatory. The ATS could, for instance, explain: (1) objective or quantitative
criteria used to determine which minimum applies to which applicants and why the ATS chose
the objective and qualitative criteria that it did, which would also meet the requirements of
paragraph (b)(5)(iii)(A)(2) outlined above; and (2) why those objective or quantitative criteria
are fair and not unreasonably discriminatory as applied to the ATS. If there are no objective
criteria, the ATS must explain why it is fair and not unreasonably discriminatory to have and
apply the capital and credit requirements among applicants to the ATS.
Finally, the Commission is proposing Rule 301(b)(5)(iii)(A)(5) to require an ATS’s
reasonable written standards address any standard for granting, limiting, or denying access to the
services of the ATS performed by persons other than the broker-dealer operator. From the
Commission’s experience, persons other than the broker-dealer operator may perform all or
some functions of the ATS. In other cases, the broker-dealer operator, or affiliate of the brokerdealer operator, may direct the ATS participants to use the services of a person other than the
broker-dealer operator. In both such cases, the activities of those persons can affect participants’
access to the ATS, and therefore, the ATS must ensure, through its written fair access standards,
that those persons have established reasonable written standards for granting, denying, and
limiting access to the ATS and are applying those standards in a fair and non-discriminatory
manner.
For example, an ATS that arranges for an entity to provide order entry services to the
ATS would be required to ensure that the order entry provider has reasonable standards for ATS
participants to access the order entry services, and thus the ATS. The ATS would be required to
address in its reasonable written standards how the provider ensures that its standards are
reasonable because the activities of the provider can impact the ability of participants to access
the ATS. In addition, if the ATS broker-dealer operator, or affiliate of the broker-dealer
operator, directs participants to use the services of another entity in connection with the ATS,
291
that ATS would be responsible to ensure that such entity establishes reasonable standards for
access. For example, if the broker-dealer operator, or affiliate of the broker-dealer operator,
directs participants to use the services of a certain clearing broker, the ATS would be required to
ensure that the clearing broker has reasonable written standards and to include in the ATS’s
written standards the clearing broker’s written standards for granting, denying, or limiting access
to its clearing services as they relate to the ATS. The Commission is concerned that an ATS
may attempt to use an affiliate or third party to perform ATS activities or functions while
avoiding the application of Regulation ATS to those activities or functions.681 Requiring an ATS
subject to the Fair Access Rule to address in its written standards the activities or functions
performed by persons in conjunction with the ATS other than the broker-dealer operator would
help ensure fair access to the ATS by investors.
4. Recordkeeping Requirements
The Commission is also proposing changes to the ATS recordkeeping requirements under
Rule 301(b)(5)(iii)(B), as proposed to be amended.682 The Commission is proposing to replace
the reference to records relating to grants of access to “subscribers” with references to
“participants.” In the Commission’s experience, ATSs can grant access to customers of
subscribers who may not themselves be subscribers to the ATS. This proposed change would
clarify that records related to such participants would need to be made and kept under the rule.
In addition, the Commission is proposing to add to the rule text that the ATS must make and
keep records related to denials or limitations of access and reasons for each applicant “and
participant.” By adding “participant,” the Commission will reflect that it requires an ATS
subject to the rules to keep records of when it limits access to existing participants (not only

681 See Regulation ATS Adopting Release, supra note 31, at 70873, n.252.
682 This is currently in paragraph (b)(5)(iii)(C), but would be renumbered to paragraph
(b)(5)(iii)(B) under the proposed changes.
292
“applicants”) to the ATS system. This is a technical change, as the current rule requires the ATS
to make and keep all records related to limitations of access and reasons for such limitations,
which would apply to both existing participants, as well as applicants upon entry to the ATS.
The Commission is also proposing to add language to Rule 301(b)(5)(iii)(B)(1) and (2) to
reference that grants of access and denials of limits of access and reasons for limitation and
denying access to the services of the ATS would be under the standards provided in proposed
Rule 301(b)(5)(iii)(A). Referencing the standards in Rule 301(b)(5)(iii)(A) would clarify that
grants, limitations, and denials of ATS services would be under the standards of the rule, as
proposed to be revised. The Commission is also proposing to amend Rule 303(a)(1)(iii) of
Regulation ATS to require an ATS subject to the Fair Access Rule, for a period of not less than
three years, the first two years in an easily accessible place, to preserve at least one copy,
including each version, of such ATS’s written standards for access to trading, all documents
relevant to the ATS decision to grant, deny, or limit access to any person, and all other
documents made or received by the ATS in complying with the Fair Access Rule.683 This
change would modify the current rule to specify that the standards are “written” and that the ATS
must maintain “each version” of the written standards required under Rule 301(b)(5), which is
consistent with the previous Commission guidance.
684
5. Removal of the Exclusion for Passive Systems from the Fair Access Rule

683 The Commission is also proposing to specify in Rule 303(a)(1)(iv) and (v) that an ATS
must maintain “each version” of copies of records made in the course of complying with
Rule 301(b)(6) and copies of the written safeguards and written procedures to protect
subscribers’ confidential trading information and written oversight procedures created in
the course of complying with Rule 301(b)(10).
684 See Regulation ATS Adopting Release, supra note 31, at n.251 (stating that the
Commission expects an ATS to maintain a record of its standards at each point in time,
and that if the ATS amends or modifies its access standards, the records kept should
reflect historic standards, as well as current standards).
293
The Commission is re-proposing to remove an exclusion from compliance with the Fair
Access Rule under Rule 301(b)(5) and the Capacity, Integrity, and Security Rule under Rule
301(b)(6) that is applicable to ATSs that trade equities.685 An ATS is excluded from complying
with the requirements of the Fair Access Rule and the Capacity, Integrity, and Security Rule if
the ATS: (i) matches customer orders for a security with other customer orders; (ii) such
customers’ orders are not displayed to any person, other than employees of the ATS; and (iii)
such orders are executed at a price for such security disseminated by an effective transaction
reporting plan, or derived from such prices.686 In adopting the exclusion, the Commission stated
that ATSs of this nature, the so-called “passive systems,” did not contribute significantly to price
discovery; however, the Commission also stated that they had the potential to and frequently do
affect the markets from which their prices are derived, and thus, the Commission would continue
to monitor these systems and reconsider whether the requirements should apply if concerns arise
in the future.687
In the Regulation ATS Adopting Release, the Commission explained that fair treatment
by ATSs of subscribers is particularly important when an ATS captures a large percentage of
trading volume in a security because investors lack access to viable alternatives to trading in the
ATS.688 Since the adoption of Regulation ATS, passive systems (as the term is used in the

685 When adopting the exclusion, the Commission contemplated that it would apply only to
ATSs that trade equity securities, as one of the elements of the exclusion requires that the
prices in the ATS be based on the SIP. The third prong of each exception states that if an
ATS meets the requirement, among others, to execute customer orders “at a price for
such security disseminated by an effective transaction reporting plan, or derived from
such prices,” the ATS would not be subject to the Fair Access Rule or Capacity, Integrity,
and Security Rule, as applicable. 17 CFR 242.301(b)(5)(iii)(C); 17 CFR
242.301(b)(6)(iii)(C).
686 17 CFR 242.301(b)(5)(iii); 17 CFR 242.301(b)(6)(iii).
687 Regulation ATS Adopting Release, supra note 31, at 70853.
688 Id. at 70872.
294
Regulation ATS Adopting Release) for NMS stocks have garnered a significant percentage of
trading volume in securities and have come to play an important role in matching buyers and
sellers of securities.689 Eliminating the Rule 301(b)(5)(iii) exclusion would ensure that the Fair
Access Rule is applied as intended and help ensure fair treatment of applicants and current
subscribers by any type of ATS that captures a large percentage of trading in a security or type of
security.
The Commission is also re-proposing to amend Rule 301(b)(6) to remove the exclusion
from compliance with the Capacity, Integrity, and Security Rule under Rule 301(b)(6)(iii).690 As
part of Regulation SCI, Rule 301(b)(6) of Regulation ATS was amended to no longer apply to
ATSs that trade equities because Regulation SCI superseded and replaced the requirements of
the Capacity, Integrity, and Security Rule with regard to ATSs that trade NMS stocks and nonNMS stocks.691
Request for Comment
150. Should the Commission change the five percent fair access threshold for NMS stocks,
equity securities that are not NMS stocks, corporate bonds, or municipal securities? If so,
should the threshold be changed higher or lower than the existing five-percent threshold
under Rule 301(b)(5)(i)? National securities exchanges are required to have rules
designed to prevent unfair discrimination692 and admit members fairly.693 Because ATSs
are operating pursuant to an exemption from exchange registration, should the
Commission eliminate the volume threshold(s) for the Fair Access Rule and thus, require

689 See NMS Stock ATS Adopting Release, supra note 2, at 38770-71.
690 17 CFR 242.301(b)(6)(iii).
691 See Regulation SCI Adopting Release, supra note 3, at 72252, 72267.
692 15 U.S.C. 78f(b)(5).
693 See 15 U.S.C. 78f(b)(2) and (c); 15 U.S.C. 78o–3(b)(8).
295
all ATSs to provide fair access to their participants regardless of trading volume? If yes,
should the Commission eliminate the volume thresholds for all categories of securities
subject to the Fair Access Rule or only specific categories?
151. Should the Commission change the look-back period for applying the fair access
thresholds from four out of the preceding six months to something different? For
example, should an ATS be subject to fair access if its average daily trading volume in a
subject security is five percent over the prior quarter or the prior month? Should the
Commission change to the look-back period for all categories of securities subject to the
Fair Access Rule, or just specific categories?
152. Should the Commission allow or require ATSs to use sources of market data other than
published data provided by the SRO to which trades are reported? If yes, which data
sources?
153. Should the Commission change the Fair Access Rule for it to apply categorically to
NMS stocks rather than on a security-by-security basis? For example, should the
Commission change the fair access threshold for equity securities so that an ATS would
only be subject to the requirements of the Fair Access Rule if its average daily trading
volume is five percent across all NMS stocks? Should the Commission change the Fair
Access Rule to provide fair access in all NMS stocks if it surpasses the fair access
threshold in a single NMS stock?
154. Should the Commission change the Fair Access Rule so that it applies categorically,
rather than on a security-by-security basis, to equity securities that are not NMS stocks?
For example, should the Commission change the fair access threshold for equity
securities so that an ATS would only be subject to the requirements of the Fair Access
Rule if its average daily trading volume is five percent across all equity securities that are
not NMS stocks? Additionally, or alternatively, should the Commission change the Fair
296
Access Rule to require an ATS to provide fair access in all NMS stocks if it surpasses the
fair access threshold in a single NMS stock?
155. Should the Commission adopt rules to amend the Rule 301(b)(5)(ii) of the Fair Access
Rule to aggregate the trading volume for a security or category of securities for ATSs that
are operated by a common broker-dealer, or ATSs that are operated by affiliated brokerdealers, solely for the purpose of calculating the average transaction volume under Rule
301(b)(5)(i)(A) through (F)?
156. Under Regulation ATS, an ATS would be subject to the order display and execution
access provisions under Rule 301(b)(3) and Rule 301(b)(6) (Capacity, Integrity and
Security Rule) if the ATS exceeded certain volume thresholds within a given period of
time under the rules. Should the Commission amend the order display and execution
access provisions and the Capacity, Integrity, and Security Rule to aggregate the trading
volume for a security or category of securities for ATSs that are operated by a common
broker-dealer, or ATSs that are operated by affiliated broker-dealers, for the purpose of
calculating the average transaction volume under those rules?
157. Instead of aggregating trading volume across multiple ATSs operated by a common
broker-dealer, should the Commission amend Regulation ATS to require a broker-dealer
to operate only one ATS for a category of security? If no, why is it important for one
broker-dealer to be able to offer multiple ATS market places for the trading of the same
category of security?
158. Should the Commission adopt the same standard of reasonableness that is applied to
national securities exchanges for purposes of the Fair Access Rule? If not, what standard
of reasonableness should apply to ATSs that are subject to the Fair Access Rule?
297
159. Should the Commission adopt requirements in addition to the reasonable written
standards proposed in Rule 301(b)(5)(iii)(A)(1) through (4)? Should any of those
standards be amended?
160. Should the Commission eliminate the exclusion from compliance with the Fair Access
Rule under Rule 301(b)(5)(iii) and with the Capacity, Integrity, and Security Rule under
Rule 301(b)(6)(iii)?
161. Should the Commission adopt the changes to the recordkeeping provisions of the Fair
Access Rule? Are there any additional records that an ATS should be required to keep?
B. Electronic Filing of and Other Changes to Form ATS and Form ATS-R
The Commission is re-proposing revisions to Rule 301(b)(2), Form ATS, and Form ATSR to modernize Form ATS and Form ATS-R and to provide that they are filed electronically. In
addition, the Commission is proposing to require ATSs to provide certain additional information
on Form ATS-R, including volume reporting for transactions in repurchase and reverse
repurchase agreements on the ATS. ATSs are required to file the information required by Form
ATS-R694 pursuant to Rule 301(b)(9) within 30 calendar days after the end of each calendar
quarter in which the ATS has operated.695
First, the Commission is re-proposing an amendment to Rule 301(b)(2)(vi), which
currently states that “[e]very notice or amendment filed pursuant to this paragraph (b)(2) shall
constitute a ‘report’” within the meaning of applicable provisions of the Exchange Act. The
Commission proposes to add a reference to Rule 301(b)(9) to state that Form ATS-R, as is the

694 See Form ATS-R. See also supra notes 144-147.
695 See 17 CFR 242.301(b)(9)(i). An ATS must also file Form ATS-R more frequently upon
request of the Commission. See Form ATS-R Instructions.
298
case with Form ATS, constitutes a report within the meaning of applicable provisions of the
Exchange Act.696
Next, the Commission is re-proposing to require that all Forms ATS and ATS-R are filed
with the Commission electronically. As proposed, following the effective date of the proposed
rule, all Form ATS filers would be required to file an amendment on Form ATS in the electronic
format proposed herein that would also include all new information required by revised Form
ATS. Currently, ATSs are required to submit paper submissions of Forms ATS and ATS-R to
the Commission.697 The Commission proposes to amend Rule 301(b)(2)(vii) to require that an
ATS must file a Form ATS or a Form ATS-R in accordance with the instructions therein. The
Commission is proposing to revise the instructions to Form ATS and Form ATS-R to require that
they be submitted electronically via EDGAR.698 The Commission is also proposing to require in
Rule 301(b)(2)(vii) that reports provided for in Rule 301(b)(2) and (9) shall be filed on Form
ATS and Form ATS-R, as applicable, and include all information as prescribed in Form ATS or
Form ATS-R, as applicable, and the instructions thereto.699 In addition, the Commission is

696 This amendment would be consistent with Rule 301(b)(2)(vii), which states that “[a]ll
reports filed pursuant to this paragraph (b)(2) and paragraph (b)(9)” of Rule 301 are, as
proposed, accorded confidential treatment subject to applicable law. See 17 CFR
242.301(b)(2)(vii). The instructions to Form ATS and Form ATS-R require an ATS to
submit one original and two copies of Form ATS and Form ATS-R to the Commission.
See Form ATS and Form ATS-R Instructions. In addition, Rule 301(b)(2)(vii) requires
that an ATS file copies of its Form ATS filings with the examining authority of the SRO
with which it is registered (e.g., FINRA) at the same time it files with the Commission,
and upon request, the ATS must provide its SRO’s surveillance personnel with duplicate
Form ATS-R filings. See 17 CFR 242.301(b)(2)(vii).
697 Rule 301(b)(2)(vii) of Regulation ATS specifies that reports on Form ATS shall be
considered filed upon receipt by the Division of Trading and Markets, at the
Commission’s principal office in Washington, D.C. See 17 CFR 242.301(b)(2)(vii).
698 See infra note 701 and accompanying text.
699 Accordingly, the Commission is proposing to delete the provisions of Rule 301(b)(2)(vii)
related to paper submission. Specifically, the Commission is proposing to delete the
sentence that the reports shall be considered filed “upon receipt by the Division of
299
proposing to require that any Form ATS or Form ATS-R shall be executed at, or prior to, the
time Form ATS or Form ATS-R is filed and shall be retained by the ATS in accordance
with Rule 303 of Regulation ATS and Rule 302 of Regulation S-T, and the instructions in Form
ATS or Form ATS-R, as applicable.700 Among other benefits, the electronic filing of Forms
ATS and ATS-R would increase efficiencies and decrease filing costs for ATSs (i.e., ATSs
would no longer be required to print and mail paper filings) and for Commission staff when
undertaking a review of these forms. Form ATS-N is required to be filed in EDGAR. EDGAR
is currently configured to support the Commission’s receipt and review of filings under
Regulation ATS, and requiring electronic Form ATS and Form ATS-R filings to be submitted
via EDGAR would be the most efficient way to facilitate their electronic filing.
To facilitate electronic filing, the Commission is proposing to amend the text of General
Instructions A.4 of Forms ATS and ATS-R to require that all filings be submitted via EDGAR
and prepared, formatted, and submitted in accordance with Regulation S-T and the EDGAR Filer
Manual.701 The Commission also proposes to amend Forms ATS and ATS-R General

Trading and Markets, at the Commission’s principal office in Washington, D.C.”
Additionally, although the Commission would continue to require that duplicates of
filings on Form ATS be provided to the SRO that is the examining authority for each
ATS, and that duplicates of the Form ATS-R be made available to the surveillance
personnel of such SRO upon request, the Commission proposes to eliminate the reference
to “originals” in Rule 301(b)(2)(vii) because paper reports will no longer be furnished to
the Commission and there will therefore be no “original” version of the reports.
700 The Commission notes that the proposed provisions would conform to similar provisions
of Rule 304, which provide for the electronic filing of Form ATS-N. See 17 CFR
242.304(c).
701 The Commission proposes to eliminate the language in the Form ATS instructions and
Form ATS-R instructions requesting that an ATS type all information because an ATS
would not otherwise have the option to handwrite any responses. The instructions for
both forms would be amended to eliminate the option to use a “reproduction” of the
forms. The Commission also believes it is redundant to state that the Form ATS or Form
ATS-R must be the “current version” as the ATS is required to attest that the form is
“current.” The Commission also proposes to delete the requirement to attach an
execution page with original manual signatures for Form ATS because, as discussed
300
Instruction A.5 to state that a filing that is defective may be rejected and not be accepted by the
EDGAR system and that any filing so rejected shall be deemed not filed. This is consistent with
the requirements of Regulation S-T, which provides the rules for EDGAR submissions.702 The
Commission also notes that the instructions for current Form ATS contain similar language,703
but the current instructions for Form ATS-R do not contain such language. The Commission
believes that it would be appropriate to reject a filing as defective if it does not comply with the
technical requirements of the form, for example, if a Form ATS or Form ATS-R is missing
exhibits, or if the ATS does not provide a response to a Form ATS request or does not comply
with the electronic filing requirements. The Commission is also proposing to amend General
Instruction A.6 (“Recordkeeping”) of both forms to reflect that records must be retained in
accordance with the EDGAR Filer Manual and Rule 303 of Regulation ATS and to conform to
the recordkeeping instructions on Form ATS-N, as revised.
704 Instruction A.8 would also be
revised to reflect updated Paperwork Reduction Act estimates, and, to conform to changes the
Commission is proposing in Rule 301(b)(2)(vii),705 to state that types of securities traded
provided on Form ATS and Form ATS-R will not be afforded confidential treatment. The

above, Form ATS and Form ATS-R would be signed electronically and thus there would
be no need for an execution page. The Commission also proposes to delete the
instruction that the name of the alternative trading system, CRD number, SEC file
number, and report period dates be listed on each page, as this requirement will be
unnecessary because the Form ATS or Form ATS-R will be submitted as a single
submission. Because Form ATS and Form ATS-R would be submitted via EDGAR, the
Commission is also proposing to delete references to submitting the “original” and
“copies” of the form to the Commission at the Commission’s mailing address.
702 17 CFR part 232. This is also consistent with the requirements for Form ATS-N.
703 The Form ATS Instructions state that “Form ATS shall not be considered filed, unless it
complies with applicable requirements.”
704 Rule 303 of Regulation ATS provides the record preservation requirements for ATSs.
See 17 CFR 242.303.
705 See infra Section V.C.
301
Commission is also proposing to add new Instruction A.8 to Form ATS to require that, for
amendments, the filer attach an Exhibit C marked to indicate additions to or deletions from the
disclosures in Items 1 through 6 of Form ATS. This document would help enable the
Commission to identify any changes to the form more easily. Most ATSs currently provide such
a marked document to the Commission on a voluntary basis. The Commission is also proposing
to amend the instructions to Form ATS to state that Newly Designated ATSs are required to file
a Form ATS no later than the date 30 calendar days after the effective date of any final rule, if
adopted.
706
In addition, the Commission is re-proposing to amend Form ATS to require an ATS
filing an amendment on Form ATS to identify whether the Form ATS filing is a material
amendment under Rule 301(b)(2)(ii), a periodic amendment under Rule 301(b)(2)(iii), or a
correcting amendment under Rule 301(b)(2)(iv).707 An ATS currently identifies an amendment
to current Form ATS by marking the “Amendment to Initial Operation Report” box on Form
ATS, and Form ATS currently does not ask the ATS to specify whether the amendment to Form
ATS is a material, periodic, or correcting amendment.708 Requiring an ATS to specify the type
of amendment would better enable the Commission to determine whether an ATS is in
compliance with Regulation ATS. The Commission also proposes requiring an ATS that is
filing a cessation of operations report to provide the date that the ATS ceased to operate, which is
not currently required on Form ATS. The Commission believes that having information about

706 See supra note 180 and accompanying text.
707 See Rule 301(b)(2)(ii)-(iv).
708 The Commission is also proposing to add cites to the relevant rule text next to the check
boxes on Form ATS identifying whether the ATS is filing an Initial Operation Report
(“IOR”), amendment to IOR, or a cessation of operations report.
302
the date that the ATS ceased to operate would enable the Commission to determine more readily
whether an ATS is, or was, in compliance with Regulation ATS.709
The Commission is also re-proposing to amend Form ATS and Form ATS-R to change
the solicitation of information relating to the name of the broker-dealer operator and the
registration and contact information of the broker-dealer operator. Because many broker-dealer
operators of ATSs engage in brokerage and/or dealing activities in addition to operating an ATS,
and some broker-dealers operate multiple ATSs, the name of the broker-dealer operator of an
ATS often differs from the commercial name under which the ATS conducts business. To
identify the broker-dealer operator of an ATS and to assist the Commission in collecting and
organizing its filings and assessing whether the ATS has met its requirement to register as a
broker-dealer, Forms ATS and ATS-R would require the ATS to indicate the full name of the
broker-dealer operator of the ATS, as it is stated on Form BD, in Item 1 of Form ATS and Form
ATS-R. To further facilitate compliance with the requirements of Regulation ATS, as proposed,
Form ATS and Form ATS-R would require the ATS to indicate whether the filer is a brokerdealer registered with the Commission and whether the broker-dealer operator has been
authorized by a national securities association to operate an ATS. Such requirements would
conform to the proposed requirements of Form ATS-N.710 The Commission is proposing to
conform Item 1 of Form ATS and Form ATS-R711 to the requirements of Form ATS-N, which is

709 See Rule 301(b)(2)(v) (requiring an ATS to promptly file a cessation of operations report
on Form ATS in accordance with the instructions therein upon ceasing to operate as an
ATS).
710 See supra Section IV.D.3.
711 Form ATS and Form ATS-R currently ask for the ATS’s main street address, mailing
address, business telephone number and facsimile number, and the contact information
for the ATS’s contact person. The Commission is proposing to move the information
requests for the name and title and telephone number of the contact employee to the
signature block on the form, and to request an email address for such person and not
require the facsimile number. The proposed signature block would ask for the primary
303
currently filed electronically. In addition, the Commission is proposing to add to Item 1 of Form
ATS and Form ATS-R a requirement that the ATS provide the broker-dealer operator’s LEI, if
the broker-dealer operator has an LEI,
712 and the MPID of the broker-dealer operator.713 These
requests would help the Commission in identifying and corresponding with ATSs and would
conform to the identifying information on Form ATS-N, as proposed to be revised.
714 To
determine whether the compliance transition rules applicable to Newly Designated ATSs apply,
the Commission is also proposing to require the ATS to indicate if it is a Newly Designated ATS
in Item 2.
In addition, to facilitate the electronic filing of Form ATS, the Commission is proposing
to revise Form ATS to provide that the narrative disclosures be included in a single document,

street address and mailing address of the ATS. The current certifications required in
Form ATS and Form ATS-R, including that the information filed is current, true, and
complete, would remain unchanged. However, the Commission is proposing to delete
the provision allowing for service of any civil action pursuant to confirmed telegram and
instead, permit service of any civil action via email. The signature block on Form ATS
and Form ATS-R would conform to the signature block in Form ATS-N, as proposed.
See supra Section IV.D.6.
712 See supra note 506.
713 See supra Section IV.D.3 (proposing requiring the ATS to disclose the MPID of its
broker-dealer operator).
714 The Commission proposes to replace in Item 1 of Form ATS and Form ATS-R the
requests for the ATS’s main street address, mailing address, and business telephone
number and facsimile number with a requirement that the ATS provide the primary, and
if any, secondary physical street address of the ATS’s matching system, as well as a URL
address for its website if it has a website. Knowing the location of the matching system
address and secondary matching system address could be useful to the Commission in the
event of, for instance, a natural disaster that could impact market participants’ ability to
trade in the ATS and potential latency that could be experienced due to the location of the
secondary site of the ATS. The Commission is also requesting the full name of the
national securities association of the broker-dealer operator, the effective date of the
broker-dealer operator’s membership with the national securities association, and MPID
of the ATS. In addition, because any current or former names of the ATS would be
searchable on EDGAR and there will be multiple identifiers included on the form,
including MPID, the Commission is proposing to delete the requirement that the ATS
indicate if it is changing its name and list its former name.
304
rather than multiple exhibits.715 The ATS would be required to provide the information currently
required in Exhibits A, B, C, E, F (other than a copy of the ATS’s subscriber manual and any
other materials provided to subscribers), G, H, and I in a single document. Because the
subscriber manual may be lengthy, it would be more efficient for the ATS to provide a copy of
its subscriber manual and any other materials provided to subscribers, which are currently
required to be included in Exhibit F, as a separate, new Exhibit A. In addition, the Commission
is proposing new Exhibit B, which would include a copy of the constitution, articles of
incorporation or association, with all amendments, and of the existing by-laws or corresponding
rules or instruments, whatever the name, of the alternative trading system. Today, an ATS may,
in lieu of attaching such documents, indicate that the ATS makes such information publicly
available on a continuous basis on an Internet site controlled by the ATS and indicate the website
of the ATS. Because the Commission is requiring the ATS to provide its website in Part I,716 the
Commission is proposing to include a checkbox for the ATS to select if, in lieu of filing, the
ATS certifies that the information requested under the exhibit is available at the website above
and is maintained on a continuous basis and is accurate as of the date of the filing.
The Commission is also re-proposing to amend Form ATS-R to make it easier for the
Commission staff to identify if the ATS has met its reporting obligations. First, the Commission

715 In response to the 2020 Proposal, one commenter stated that current Form ATS Exhibit F,
which requires the ATS to provide certain specified information about its operations and
procedures, should be amended to follow the same structure as current Form ATS Exhibit
G, which requires a “brief description” of the ATS’s procedures for reviewing system
capacity, security, and contingency planning procedures to provide ATS operators with
latitude in the manner in which they provide information to the Commission. See ICE
Bonds Letter I at 6-7. The Commission is not proposing a change to the structure of
Exhibit F of Form ATS to conform to the structure of Exhibit G. The structures of
Exhibits F and G are not dissimilar in that they both require an ATS to provide a
description of ATS policies and procedures and that the information solicited by Exhibit
F is important for the Commission to understand and oversee ATSs.
716 See supra note 714.
305
is proposing to require an ATS to specify whether it is filing a quarterly report amendment under
Rule 301(b)(9)(i) or a report for an ATS that has ceased to operate under Rule 301(b)(9)(ii) and,
if the latter, to indicate the date the ATS ceased to operate. Requiring an ATS to indicate its type
of Form ATS-R filing would enable the Commission to more effectively review Form ATS-R
submissions and determine whether an ATS is in compliance with Regulation ATS. The
Commission is also proposing to amend Form ATS-R to ask whether the ATS was subject to the
fair access obligations under § 242.301(b)(5) during any portion of the period covered by the
report by adding a corresponding box for the ATS to check “yes” or “no.” Currently, Form
ATS-R requires an ATS that is subject to the Fair Access Rule to report a list of all persons for
whom access to the ATS was granted, denied, or limited during the period covered by the Form
ATS-R.717 Asking the ATS to indicate whether the ATS was subject to the Fair Access Rule
during any portion of the period covered by the report would facilitate the Commission’s review
of Form ATS-R submissions.
The Commission is also proposing changes to the Form ATS-R categories of securities to
modernize them and add more specificity with regard to all categories of securities. Form ATSR currently requires ATSs to indicate the total dollar volume of government securities
transactions in the period covered by the report. The Commission is proposing to require that
ATSs specify the total dollar volume of transactions in “U.S. Treasury Securities” and “Agency
Securities” under the heading “Government securities.”718 As currently, ATSs would also be
required to indicate the total dollar volume in government securities overall. This change would
help the Commission facilitate compliance with the thresholds for the Fair Access Rule and

717 See Form ATS-R and Form ATS-R Instructions, No. 8.
718 The Commission is proposing to add to the Form ATS-R instructions the definitions of
U.S. Treasury Security and Agency Security, which would conform to the definitions the
Commission is proposing in Rule 300(o) and (p), respectively.
306
Regulation SCI, which the Commission is proposing would be based on trading volume in U.S.
Treasury Securities and Agency Securities.719 To avoid double-reporting of transactions in afterhours trading (reported under Item 6), the Commission is proposing to specify that Item 4
pertains to transactions “other than those for after-hours trading.” In addition, the Commission is
proposing to amend Form ATS-R to update the descriptions of certain categories of securities for
which volume is required to be reported on Form ATS-R by an ATS. Specifically, the
Commission is proposing to delete the categories of securities, “Nasdaq National Market
Securities” and “Nasdaq SmallCap Market Securities,” reported in Items 4 and 6 of Form ATSR.720 The proposal to require ATSs to file Form ATS-R electronically via EDGAR would allow
the Commission staff to easily ascertain on which national securities exchanges the equity
securities the ATS traded during the applicable period, as disclosed in Exhibit B, are traded.
Therefore, it would no longer be necessary to separate out the total volume of securities traded
on the Nasdaq markets from the total volume of securities traded on other national securities
exchanges. The proposal would require ATSs to report the total volume previously reported
under the “Nasdaq National Market Securities” and “Nasdaq SmallCap Market Securities”
categories under “Listed Equity Securities.”
The Commission is proposing to require ATSs to break down the volume for corporate
debt securities, currently reported in Item 4J, by U.S. and non-U.S. corporate debt securities.

719 See supra Sections III.B.4 and III.C.
720 Currently, any equity securities traded on the Nasdaq Global Market are required to be
reported under “Nasdaq National Market Securities,” and any equity securities traded on
the Nasdaq Capital Market are required to be reported under “Nasdaq SmallCap Market
Securities.” “Listed Equity Securities” include all other equity securities listed on any
other markets or national securities exchanges, including the Nasdaq Global Select
Market. Any rights and warrants are required to be reported under the “Rights and
Warrants” category even if they are listed on a national securities exchange. As
proposed, Items 4B, 4C, 6B, and 6C would be deleted, and therefore, Items 4D through
4N and Item 6D would be re-numbered.
307
Non-U.S. corporate debt securities would include debt securities issued by a foreign issuer
(excluding a foreign government) in emerging markets as well as non-emerging markets. In
addition, the Commission is adding new Item 4L to require ATSs to report total dollar volume
for foreign sovereign debt securities, which currently are required to be reported under other debt
securities in Item 4N. Foreign sovereign debt securities would be defined in Instruction B of
Form ATS-R as any security other than an equity security, as defined in §240.3a11-1, issued or
guaranteed by a foreign government, as defined in §240.3b-4.721 Creating subcategories of
corporate debt securities and a reporting requirement for foreign sovereign debt securities would
improve the quality of data that the Commission already gathers through Form ATS-R. In
addition, the proposed reporting requirements would help the Commission further understand the
amount of trading that occurs on the ATSs for corporate bonds and foreign sovereign debt
securities markets.
The Commission is also proposing to add new Items 4N and 4O to Form ATS-R, which
would require ATSs to disclose the total unit and dollar volume of transactions in repurchase
agreements and reverse repurchase agreements. Specifically, the Commission is proposing to
require ATSs to disclose the total unit722 and dollar volume of repurchase and reverse repurchase
transactions broken down by (1) whether the transaction is overnight or term;
723 (2) whether the

721 “Debt Securities” is defined as “any security other than an equity security, as defined in
§240.3a11-1” in Form ATS-R. See Instruction B of Form ATS-R. Section 240.3b-4
(Rule 3b-4(a) under the Exchange Act) defines “foreign government” as the government
of any foreign country or of any political subdivision of a foreign country. See 17 CFR
240.3b-4.
722 For repurchase or reverse repurchase agreements collateralized with a basket or group of
securities, “total unit volume of transactions” would mean the number of units within
each basket or group rather than the number of baskets or groups.
723 Overnight repo trades end in one business day, whereas term repos mature on a specific
future business day that is more than one business day. See, e.g., Office of Financial
Research, U.S. Repo Market Data Release Methodology for Tri-party Repo, available at
https://www.financialresearch.gov/data/files/2021-04--Methodology-TPR.pdf; Office of
308
transaction is triparty724 or bilateral;
725 and (3) the type of securities used to finance the
collateral—i.e., NMS stocks, U.S. Treasury Securities, Federal Agency Securities, Agency
Mortgage-Backed Securities, municipal securities, U.S. and non-U.S. corporate debt securities,
asset-backed securities, foreign sovereign debt securities, and other securities.
726 If an ATS
traded repurchase or reverse repurchase agreements collateralized with other securities, the ATS
would list the other types of securities in proposed Item 4N or 4O. In the Commission’s
experience, some ATSs that trade repurchase or reverse repurchase agreements, which are
currently required to be disclosed as debt securities on Item 4N of Form ATS-R, currently
provide in Item 5B of Form ATS-R on a voluntary basis a breakdown of nominal trade value of
each of these types of securities. Adding new Items 4N and 4O to Form ATS-R to require that
ATSs provide the total unit and dollar volume of transactions in repurchase and reverse
repurchase agreements would require all ATSs that trade repurchase or reverse repurchase
agreements to take a consistent approach in providing this information. The Commission
understands that certain transaction information about repurchase and reverse repurchase

Financial Research, U.S. Repo Market Data Release Methodology for DVP Cleared
Repo, available at https://www.financialresearch.gov/data/files/2021-04--MethodologyDVP.pdf.
724 See supra note 521. Triparty repurchase and reverse repurchase transactions would
include triparty trades between members that participate in the Fixed Income Clearing
Corporation’s (“FICC”) General Collateral Financing (GCF) Repo Service. On the other
hand, repurchase and reverse repurchase transactions in the FICC’s Delivery vs. Payment
(“DVP”) Repo Service would be reported under the bilateral category.
725 See supra note 522.
726 As a result, ATSs would report the total unit and dollar volume of transactions for each of
80 categories of repos: 2 types of agreements (repurchase or reverse repurchase) x 2
transaction types (overnight or term) x 2 party types (bilateral or triparty) x 10 collateral
types (NMS stocks, U.S. Treasury Securities, Federal Agency Securities, Agency
Mortgage-Backed Securities, municipal securities, U.S. corporate debt securities, nonU.S. corporate debt securities, asset-backed securities, foreign sovereign debt securities,
or other securities).
309
agreements is publicly available.
727 However, individual ATSs are not currently required to
provide the Commission with information breaking down the types of transactions in repurchase
and reverse repurchase agreements. In addition, transactions in repurchase and reverse
repurchase agreements are not generally required to be reported to an SRO, and the absence of
information about the trading of repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements that occur on
ATSs impedes the Commission’s oversight of these markets. The proposed reporting
requirement would enhance the Commission’s oversight of ATSs that trade repurchase and
reverse repurchase agreements.
Finally, the Commission is proposing to add new Item 5C, which would require an ATS
to list the types of listed options reported in Item 4F of Form ATS-R. Item 4F of Form ATS-R
currently requires ATSs to disclose the total unit volume and dollar volume of transactions in
listed options. Under new Item 5C, an ATS might indicate, for example, that it trades equity
options and options on government securities. This would provide the Commission with more
specific information about the types of options that each ATS trades.
In addition, because the Commission is proposing to change the definition of “exchange”
to include systems that use trading interest, the Commission is proposing to revise Form ATS to
require information related to the entry of “trading interest.” Communication Protocol Systems
that transact in securities other than NMS stocks or government securities or repos will be
required to file Form ATS if they choose to comply with Regulation ATS and the resulting
disclosures will help the Commission oversee these systems. In addition, the Commission is

727 For instance, the Treasury Department’s Office of Financial Research (“OFR”) collects
data on repurchase agreements cleared by triparty clearing banks and major central
counterparties, such as the FICC, and publishes aggregate statistics on these transactions
broken out by three venues—which are the triparty market, FICC’s DVP Service, and
FICC’s GCP Repo Service—collateral, tenor, volume, and rates. See OFR, U.S. Repo
Market Data Release, available at https://www.financialresearch.gov/data/us-repo-data/.
310
proposing to include in Form ATS the definition of “trading interest” identical to that proposed
in Rule 3b-16(e) and Rule 300(q).728 The Commission is also proposing to change the definition
of “subscriber” to conform to the changes the Commission is proposing in Rule 300(b).729 Form
ATS Item 3.g (current Exhibit F.a) requests that the ATS provide information about “the manner
of operations of the alternative trading system.”730 An ATS that either operates a
Communication Protocol System, or an order-driven system, would be required to provide
information about the manner of operations on Form ATS that is akin to information provided in
response to in Part III of Form ATS-N (e.g., display, connectivity, segmentation, market data,
counterparty selection).731 For example, ATSs that use orders generally should provide
information about order types and sizes, and the trading facilities and rules for bringing together
the orders of buyers and sellers on the ATS. ATSs that use non-firm trading interest generally
should provide information about the communication protocols and functionalities of the ATS,
including the use of messages, requirements related to the size of trading interest, and procedures
governing the communication protocols.
Request for Comment
162. Would the proposed changes to Form ATS and Form ATS-R enhance the Commission’s
oversight of ATSs? Do commenters disagree with any of the proposed modifications? If
so, what alternatives should the Commission implement?

728 See supra note 98 and accompanying text.
729 See id.
730 See Item 4.g of Form ATS, as proposed to be revised.
731 See NMS Stock ATS Adopting Release, supra note 2, at 38869 (describing that many of
the disclosure items on Form ATS–N are also required by respondents in whole or in part
on current Form ATS). See also NMS Stock ATS Proposing Release, supra note 29, at
81099-102 (describing that some of the disclosures of Form ATS-N that the Commission
was proposing were already required under Form ATS).
311
163. Form ATS-R requires an ATS to quarterly report volume of transactions for certain
securities, all subscribers that were participants in the ATS, and securities that were
traded in the ATS. Should the Commission adopt amendments to Form ATS-R to add,
change, or modify any of the requests for information on Form ATS-R? Are the current
categories of securities and the proposed categories of securities for reporting transaction
volume to the Commission appropriate?
164. Should Form ATS-R require ATSs to disclose total unit volume in government
securities, U.S. Treasury Securities, and/or Agency Securities?
165. Proposed Items 4N and 4O of Form ATS-R would require ATSs to report unit and
dollar volume of transactions in repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements broken
down by, among other categories, whether the transaction is triparty or bilateral. Do
commenters believe that categorizing repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements into
these two segments would yield useful information to the Commission? Do commenters
believe that the Commission should require ATSs to separately report volumes for
repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements in the FICC’s GCF Repo Service and
FICC’s DVP Service rather than include them under volumes for triparty and bilateral,
respectively? Are there any types of securities, not otherwise covered in proposed Items
4N and 4O, that are used as collateral in repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements?
166. Proposed Items 4N and 4O of Form ATS-R would require ATSs to report transaction
volumes of repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements in total unit and dollar volume.
Do commenters believe that ATSs should be required to provide the unit volume as well
as the dollar volume?
167. Are there characteristics unique to repurchase or reverse repurchase agreements
collateralized with a basket or group of securities that would make reporting those
repurchase or reverse repurchase agreements in both unit and dollar volume in Form
312
ATS-R unduly burdensome or inappropriate for ATSs? For such basket repos, the
Commission is proposing to define “total unit volume of transactions” as the number of
units within each basket or group rather than the number of baskets or groups. Do
commenters believe “unit” should be defined differently for basket repos?
168. Proposed Item 4J of Form ATS-R would require ATSs to report dollar volume of
transactions in U.S. and non-U.S. corporate debt securities. Do commenters believe that
the two subcategories would yield useful information to the Commission? Non-U.S.
corporate debt securities would include debt securities issued by a foreign issuer in
emerging markets as well as non-emerging markets. Do commenters believe that the
Commission should require ATSs to further break down the volume for non-U.S.
corporate debt securities by type of market—emerging and non-emerging? If so, how
should “emerging markets” be defined for the purpose of reporting on Form ATS-R? Do
commenters believe “emerging markets” should be defined by country or region?
169. Do commenters believe that the Commission should require ATSs to report total dollar
volume of foreign sovereign debt securities on Form ATS-R, as proposed? Should the
proposed definition of sovereign debt securities be modified in any way?
170. Instruction A.1 of Form ATS-R requires ATSs to file Form ATS-R within 30 days after
the end of each calendar quarter, or more frequently upon the request of the Commission.
Do commenters believe that the Commission should request information from ATSs on
Form ATS-R on a more frequent basis (e.g., monthly)? Do commenters believe that such
request would be unduly burdensome for ATSs?
171. Form ATS requires an ATS to report information to the Commission about the ATS,
including but not limited to, types of subscribers and differential access to services, types
of securities traded, counsel, governance documents, service providers, manner of
operations, including entry of trading interest, order execution procedures, clearance and
313
settlement procedures, and trade reporting, procedures for reviewing system capacity,
security, and contingency planning, procedures to safeguard subscriber funds and
securities, and direct owners. Should the Commission adopt amendments to Form ATS
to add, change, or modify any of the requests for information on Form ATS? The
proposed changes to Rule 3b-16 would require Communication Protocol Systems that
trade securities other than NMS stocks or government securities or repos to file Form
ATS. Are there any changes that the Commission should make to Form ATS that would
be relevant to Communication Protocol Systems? If so, please identify the request and
explain how it should be amended.
172. Should the Commission amend Form ATS to require disclosures similar to disclosures
required on Part II of Form ATS-N, which requests information about ATS-related
activities of the broker-dealer operator and its affiliates?
173. Should the Commission amend Form ATS to include questions similar to those in Part
III of Form ATS-N, which requests information about the manner of the ATS’s
operations?
174. Are there any specific items on Form ATS-N, currently or as proposed to be revised,
that the Commission should incorporate into Form ATS?
175. Should the Commission amend Rule 301(b)(2) and Form ATS to provide that Form
ATS is publicly disseminated? If so, should any of the information on Form ATS be kept
confidential?
C. Amendment to Rule 301(b)(2)(vii)
314
Rule 301(b)(2)(vii) provides that all reports filed pursuant to Rules 301(b)(2) and (9) are
“deemed confidential.”732 As a result, the Commission does not make Form ATS and Form
ATS-R disclosures available to the public, including the types of securities that the ATS trades
or intends to trade.733 Currently, the Commission makes public on a monthly basis on the
Commission website information about ATSs that have a Form ATS on file with the
Commission, which includes the name of the ATS, any name(s) under which business is
conducted, and the location of each ATS. The list also identifies each ATS that filed a
cessation of operations report in the prior month. While the Commission does not approve
Form ATS filings, the list is designed to inform the public about ATSs that have noticed their
operations with the Commission.
The Commission is re-proposing to amend Rule 301(b)(2) to clarify that being “deemed
confidential” means receiving confidential treatment under a relevant Commission regulation
subject to applicable law734 and to eliminate confidential treatment for information about the
type(s) of securities that the ATS trades as disclosed in the Exhibit B, subpart (a) of Form ATS
and Exhibit B of Form ATS-R. The Commission does not believe that ATSs will be harmed
by these disclosures because a vast majority of ATSs currently publicize the types of securities
in which they transact, for example, on the website for the ATS or the website of the ATS
broker-dealer operator. The Commission publishes on its website a list of ATSs that have an
active Form ATS on file with the Commission; however, information about types of securities

732 See 17 CFR 242.301(b)(2)(vii).
733 The Commission notes, however, that Form ATS and Form ATS-R are available to the
examination staff of state securities authorities and SROs. See Instruction A.7 of Form
ATS and Form ATS-R. See also 17 CFR 242.301(b)(2)(vii) (requiring duplicate of
filings on Form ATS be provided to the surveillance personnel designated by the SRO
that is the examining authority for each ATS, and that duplicates of the Form ATS-R be
made available to the surveillance personnel of such SRO upon request).
734 See, e.g., 17 CFR 200.83, 240.24b-2.
315
traded is not provided on that list and the Commission frequently receives requests from the
public and regulators for more detail in the Commission’s publication about the types of
securities traded by ATSs. Disclosing this information could help the public understand a
fundamental aspect of an ATS. To allow for this narrow exception, the Commission is
proposing to amend Rule 301(b)(2)(vii) of Regulation ATS to state that the content of reports
filed under Rule 301(b)(2) and (9) “(except for types of securities traded provided on Form
ATS and Form ATS-R) will be accorded confidential treatment subject to applicable law.”
Request for Comment
176. Should the Commission amend Rule 301(b)(2)(vii) to make Form ATS, Form ATS-R,
or both public? Should the Commission amend Rule 301(b)(2)(vii) to make any other
disclosures provided on Form ATS or Form ATS-R public?
177. Should the Commission eliminate confidential treatment for information about the
type(s) of securities that the ATS trades as disclosed on Form ATS and Form ATS-R?
VI. General Request for Comment
The Commission is requesting comments from all members of the public. The
Commission particularly requests comment from the point of view of persons who operate ATSs
that would meet the proposed definition of Government Securities ATS, subscribers to those
systems, and investors. The Commission seeks comment on all aspects of the proposed rule
amendments and proposed form, particularly the specific questions posed above. Commenters
are requested to provide empirical data in support of any arguments or analyses. With respect to
any comments, the Commission notes that they are of the greatest assistance to its rulemaking
initiative if accompanied by supporting data and analysis of the issues addressed in those
comments and by alternatives to the Commission’s proposals where appropriate.
VII. Paperwork Reduction Act
316
Certain provisions of the proposed rule amendments contain “collection of information”
requirements within the meaning of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 (“PRA”).735 The
Commission is submitting these collections of information to the Office of Management and
Budget (“OMB”) for review in accordance with 44 U.S.C 3507(d) and 5 CFR 1320.11. An
agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of
information unless the agency displays a currently valid control number. The Commission is
proposing to alter seven existing collections of information and apply such collections of
information to new categories of respondents. The titles of such existing collections of
information are:
Rule Rule Title OMB
Control
Number
Rule 301 of Regulation ATS Regulation ATS Rule 301 Amendments 3235-0509
Rule 302 of Regulation ATS Rule 302 (17 CFR 242.302) Recordkeeping
Requirements for Alternative Trading
Systems
3235-0510
Rule 303 of Regulation ATS Rule 303 (17 CFR 242.303) Record
Preservation Requirements for Alternative
Trading Systems
3235-0505
Rule 304 of Regulation ATS Regulation ATS Rule 304 and Form ATS-N 3235-0763
17 CFR 240.15b1-1 (Rule
15b1-1 under the Exchange
Act)
Form BD and Rule 15b1-1 Application for
Registration as a Broker-Dealer
3235-0012
17 CFR 232.10(b) (Rule
10(b) of Regulation S-T)
Form ID 3235-0328
Rules 1001 through 1007 of
Regulation SCI
Regulation SCI and Form SCI 3235-0703
A. Summary of Collection of Information
The proposed amendments create burdens under the PRA by (1) adding new categories of
respondents to the seven existing collections of information noted above and (2) modifying the
requirements of two of those collections, as noted below. The proposed amendments do not

735 44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq.
317
create any new collections of information. The collections of information and applicable
categories of new respondents736 are summarized in the following table:737
Collection of
Information
Rule Burden Description Respondent
Categories
Rule 301 of
Regulation ATS and
Forms ATS and ATSR
Rule 301(b)(2) Revised Burden: file
initial operations report
using the proposed
modernized Form ATS
Certain Communication
Protocol Systems
All Other Form ATS
Filers
Rule 301(b)(5) Comply with fair
access standards
recordkeeping and fair
access notice
requirements for certain
securities, including, as
proposed, U.S.
Treasury Securities and
Agency Securities
Certain Communication
Protocol Systems
Certain Legacy
Government Securities
ATSs
Certain NMS Stock
ATSs
Certain Other ATS
Filers
Rule 301(b)(6) Comply with ATSspecific systems
capacity, integrity and
security recordkeeping
and systems outages
notice requirements
Certain Communication
Protocol Systems
Rule 301(b)(9) Revised Burden: file
quarterly reports using
the proposed
modernized Form ATSR
All Communication
Protocol Systems
All Legacy Government
Securities ATSs
All NMS Stock ATSs
All Other Form ATS
Filers

736 See infra Section VII.C for a description of the categories of respondents.
737 Unless otherwise described, none of the existing information collections are being revised
with new requirements.
318
Collection of
Information
Rule Burden Description Respondent
Categories
Rule 301(b)(10) Comply with written
safeguards and
procedures requirement
All Communication
Protocol Systems
All Currently Exempted
Government Securities
ATSs
Rule 302 of
Regulation ATS
Rule 302 Comply with ATS
recordkeeping
requirements (required
by Rule 301(b)(8))
All Communication
Protocol Systems
All Currently Exempted
Government Securities
ATSs
Rule 303 of
Regulation ATS
Rule 303 Comply with ATS
record preservation
requirements (required
by Rule 301(b)(8))
All Communication
Protocol Systems
All Currently Exempted
Government Securities
ATSs
Rule 304 of
Regulation ATS and
Form ATS-N
Rule 304 Revised Burden: file
initial Form ATS-N
(required by Rule
301(b)(2)(viii)), as
proposed to be revised
Certain Communication
Protocol Systems
All Legacy Government
Securities ATSs
All NMS Stock ATSs
Rule 15b1-1 and Form
BD
Rule 15b1-1 Register as a brokerdealer using Form BD
(required by Rule
301(b)(1))
Certain Communication
Protocol Systems
Certain Currently
Exempted Government
Securities ATSs
Form ID Rule 101 of
Regulation S-T
Apply for EDGAR
access using Form ID
Certain Communication
Protocol Systems
Certain Currently
Exempted Government
Securities ATSs
Regulation SCI Rules 1001-
1007 of
Regulation SCI
Comply with
Regulation SCI
Certain Communication
Protocol Systems
319
Collection of
Information
Rule Burden Description Respondent
Categories
Certain Legacy
Government Securities
ATSs
B. Proposed Use of Information
The existing information collections affected by the proposed amendments are used as
described below:
1. Rule 301 of Regulation ATS and Forms ATS and ATS-R
Rule 301 of Regulation ATS sets forth the conditions that an ATS must comply with to
be exempt pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 3a1-1(a)(2). Rule 301 requires an ATS to register as a
broker-dealer. Rule 301 further requires all ATSs that wish to comply with Regulation ATS to
file an initial operation report on Form ATS. The initial operation report requires information
regarding operation of the system including the manner of operation, how subscribers access the
trading system, and the types of securities traded. ATSs are also required to notice changes in
their operations by filing amendments to Form ATS to the Commission.
In addition, Regulation ATS requires ATSs to provide quarterly transaction reports on
Form ATS-R. ATSs are also required to file cessation of operations reports on Form ATS. The
gathering of such information permits the Commission to oversee the operation of such systems
and track the growth of their role in the securities markets.
The Commission is proposing revisions to Rule 301(b)(2), Form ATS, and Form ATS-R
to modernize Form ATS and Form ATS-R and to provide that they are filed electronically. The
Commission believes that, among other benefits, the electronic filing of Forms ATS and ATS-R
would increase efficiencies and decrease filing costs for ATSs.
320
ATSs with significant volume are required to comply with requirements for fair access
pursuant to Rule 301(b)(5) of Regulation ATS. As proposed, such ATSs would be required to
establish and apply reasonable written standards for granting, limiting, and denying access to the
services of the ATS and make and keep records of all grants of access including, for all subscribers,
the reasons for granting such access, and all denials or limitations of access, and the reasons for each
applicant for denying or limiting access.738 The Commission is proposing to apply the Fair Access
Rule to the trading of U.S Treasury Securities and Agency Securities. The Commission believes
that, today, the principles undergirding the Fair Access Rule are equally relevant to a
Government Securities ATS and amending the Fair Access Rule to include the trading of U.S.
Treasury Securities and Agency Securities would help ensure the fair treatment of potential and
current subscribers to ATSs that consist of a large percentage of trading volume in these two
types of securities.
ATSs with significant volume are also required to comply with requirements for systems
capacity, integrity and security pursuant to Rule 301(b)(6), which, together with the requirements
under Rule 302, requires ATSs to preserve any records made in the process of complying with
the systems capacity, integrity, and security requirements. In addition, such ATSs are required to
notify Commission staff of material systems outages and significant systems changes.
The Commission uses the information provided pursuant to Rule 301 to comprehensively
monitor the growth and development of ATSs to confirm that investors effecting trades through
the systems are adequately protected, and that the systems do not impede the maintenance of fair
and orderly securities markets or otherwise operate in a manner that is inconsistent with the
Federal securities laws. In particular, the information collected and reported to the Commission
by ATSs enables the Commission to evaluate the operation of ATSs with regard to national

738 See supra Section V.A.
321
market system goals, and monitor the competitive effects of these systems to ascertain whether
the regulatory framework remains appropriate to the operation of such systems.
Without the information provided on Forms ATS and ATS-R, the Commission would not
have readily available information on a regular basis in a format that would allow it to determine
whether such systems have adequate safeguards. Further, in the absence of Rule 301, the
Commission would not regularly obtain uniform trading data to identify areas where surveillance
by SROs may be more appropriately tailored to the detection of fraudulent, deceptive and
manipulative practices that may be peculiar to an automated trading environment.
2. Rule 302 of Regulation ATS
Rule 302, as proposed to be amended,739 would require ATSs to make a record of
subscribers to the ATS, daily summaries of trading in the ATS and time-sequenced records of
trading interest information in the ATS. Regulators (including the Commission and SROs) use
the information contained in the records required to be preserved by Rule 302 to ensure that
ATSs are in compliance with Regulation ATS as well as other applicable rules and regulations.
Without the data required by Rule 302, regulators would be limited in their ability to comply
with their statutory obligations, provide for the protection of investors, and promote the
maintenance of fair and orderly markets.
3. Rule 303 of Regulation ATS
Rule 303 describes the record preservation requirements for ATSs. Rule 303 also
describes how such records must be maintained, what entities may perform this function, and
how long records must be preserved.
The information contained in the records required to be preserved by Rule 303 is used by
regulators (including the Commission and the SROs) to ensure that ATSs are in compliance with

739 See supra notes 165-166 and accompanying text.
322
Regulation ATS as well as other applicable rules and regulations. Without the data required by
Rule 303, regulators would be limited in their ability to comply with their statutory obligations,
provide for the protection of investors, and promote the maintenance of fair and orderly markets.
4. Rule 304 of Regulation ATS and Form ATS-N
Rule 304 provides conditions for NMS Stock ATSs seeking to rely on the exemption
from the definition of “exchange” provided by Rule 3a1-1(a) of the Exchange Act, including to
file a Form ATS-N, and for that Form ATS-N to become effective. Form ATS-N requires NMS
Stock ATSs to provide information about their manner of operations, the broker-dealer operator,
and the ATS-related activities of the broker-dealer operator and its affiliates to comply with the
conditions provided under Rule 304. Form ATS-N promotes more efficient and effective market
operations by providing more transparency to market participants about the operations of NMS
Stock ATSs and the potential conflicts of interest of the controlling broker-dealer operator and its
affiliates, and helps brokers meet their best execution obligations to their customers. Operational
transparency rules, including Form ATS-N, are designed to increase competition among trading
centers in regard to order routing and execution quality.
As discussed above, the Commission is re-proposing to amend Rule 304(a) to require that
a Covered ATS, which would include a Government Securities ATS, must comply with Rules
300 through 304 of Regulation ATS, as applicable, to be exempt pursuant to Rule 3a1-1(a)(2).
As proposed, all Government Securities ATSs would be required to comply with Rule 304, as
proposed to be amended, to file Form ATS-N, as revised.740
The Commission is proposing to revise Form ATS-N to include information it previously
proposed on Form ATS-G, including a question requiring information about interaction with

740 See supra Section IV.A.
323
related markets, which would be required to be responded to by both Government Securities
ATSs and NMS Stock ATSs.741 The Commission is also proposing to reorganize certain
questions on Form ATS-N and to require disclosure about any surveillance and monitoring that
is conducted with respect to the ATS.742 The Commission believes that the proposed revisions to
Form ATS-N will continue to allow for better comparisons between ATSs, and applying Form
ATS-N to Government Securities ATSs will help enable market participants to compare
Government Securities ATSs.
The Commission is also proposing certain amendments to Form ATS-N that would apply
globally to Form ATS-N unless otherwise noted.
743 The Commission believes that Form ATSN’s public disclosures would provide important information to market participants that would
help them better understand these operational facets of Government Securities ATSs and select
the best trading venue based on their needs.
5. Rule 15b1-1 and Form BD
The Commission uses the information disclosed by applicants in Form BD: (1) to
determine whether the applicant meets the standards for registration set forth in the provisions of
the Exchange Act; (2) to develop a central information resource where members of the public
may obtain relevant, up-to-date information about broker-dealers, municipal securities dealers,
and government securities broker-dealers, and where the Commission, other regulators, and
SROs may obtain information for investigatory purposes in connection with securities litigation;
and (3) to develop statistical information about broker-dealers, municipal securities dealers, and
government securities broker-dealers. Without the information disclosed in Form BD, the

741 See supra Section IV.D.1.
742 See supra Section IV.D.5.
743 See supra Section IV.D.
324
Commission could not effectively implement policy objectives of the Exchange Act with respect
to its investor protection function.
6. Form ID
The information provided on Form ID allows the Commission staff to review
applications for EDGAR access and, if the application is approved, assign identification numbers
(if the applicant does not already have an identification number) and access codes to applicants
to permit filing on EDGAR. Form ID is essential to EDGAR security.
7. Regulation SCI
Regulation SCI requires certain key market participants to, among other things: (1) have
comprehensive policies and procedures in place to help ensure the robustness and resiliency of
their technological systems, and also that their technological systems operate in compliance with
the Federal securities laws and with their own rules; and (2) provide certain notices and reports
to the Commission to improve Commission oversight of securities market infrastructure.
C. Respondents
The categories of respondents for which the proposed amendments create a burden under the
PRA are described below.
1. Legacy Government Securities ATSs
As discussed above, the Commission is re-proposing amendments to Regulation ATS that
would require a Currently Exempted Government Securities ATS that seeks to operate pursuant
to the exemption from the definition of an “exchange” under Exchange Act Rule 3a1-1(a)(2),
and thus not be required to be registered as a national securities exchange, to comply with
Regulation ATS as proposed744 and that Current Government Securities ATSs will have to

744 See supra Section III.B.2.
325
comply with the enhanced requirements for Government Securities ATSs.
745 The Commission
estimates the total number of Currently Exempted Government Securities ATSs to be 7746 and
Current Government Securities ATSs to be 17,747 and some or all of this number will be subject
to the following collections of information as estimated below:
Collection of
Information
Rule Number of
Respondents
Description
Rule 301 of
Regulation ATS
and Forms ATS
and ATS-R
Rule 301(b)(5) 7 The Commission estimates that
certain Legacy Government
Securities ATSs would satisfy
the conditions for the proposed
application of the Fair Access
Rule to Government Securities
ATS and be subject to the related
recordkeeping and notice
provisions.
Rule 301(b)(9) 24 The Commission estimates that
all Legacy Government
Securities ATSs will have to
comply with the requirement to
file quarterly reports on the
proposed modernized Form
ATS-R. The proposal would
impose the full currentlyauthorized baseline burden of
filing on Currently Exempted
Government Securities ATSs, for
which the requirement is new.
For Current Government
Securities ATSs, the proposal
would only impose the marginal
new burden of filing using the
modernized version of the form.

745 See supra Section IV.A.
746 The Commission estimates that there are 7 Currently Exempted Government Securities
ATSs that would be newly subject to the requirements of the exemption under Rule 3a1-
1(a)(2) and will be required to comply with the applicable sections of Regulation ATS, as
amended. The Commission estimates that 5 such ATSs limit their trading activity to
government securities and the other 2 ATSs limit their trading activity to repos.
747 As of September 30, 2021, 17 Government Securities ATSs currently operate pursuant to
a Form ATS currently on file with the Commission.
326
Collection of
Information
Rule Number of
Respondents
Description
Rule 301(b)(10) 7 The Commission estimates that
all Currently Exempted
Government Securities ATSs
will have to comply with the
requirement to have written
safeguards and written
procedures to protect
subscribers’ confidential trading
information.
Rule 302 of
Regulation ATS
Rule 302 7 The Commission estimates that
all Currently Exempted
Government Securities ATSs
will have to comply with the
recordkeeping requirements for
ATSs.
Rule 303 of
Regulation ATS
Rule 303 7 The Commission estimates that
all Currently Exempted
Government Securities ATSs
will have to comply with the
record preservation requirements
for ATSs.
Rule 304 of
Regulation ATS
and Form ATS-N
Rule 304 24 The Commission estimates that
all Legacy Government
Securities ATSs will have to
comply with the requirement to
file initial Form ATS-N, as
proposed to be revised.
Rule 15b1-1 and
Form BD
Rule 15b1-1 1 The Commission estimates that
certain Currently Exempted
Government Securities ATSs
currently operated by a bank and
not registered as a broker-dealer
will have to register using Form
BD.
Form ID Rule 101 of
Regulation S-T
1 The Commission estimates that
the same subset of Currently
Exempted Government
Securities ATSs that are not
currently registered as a broker-
327
Collection of
Information
Rule Number of
Respondents
Description
dealer will also have to file Form
ID to apply for EDGAR access.
Regulation SCI Rules 1001-
1007 of
Regulation SCI
1 Legacy
Government
Securities ATS that
is an existing SCI
entity and 1 that is
a new SCI entity
The Commission estimates that
certain Legacy Government
Securities ATSs would meet the
specified volume threshold to
meet the proposed amended
definition of “SCI alternative
trading system” and be subject to
the requirements of Regulation
SCI.
2. Communication Protocol Systems
As discussed above, the Commission is proposing to amend Exchange Act Rule 3b-16(a)
to cause Communication Protocol Systems to fall within the definition of “exchange” and
believes that such Communication Protocol Systems would likely choose to register as a broker
dealer and be regulated under the Regulation ATS exemption than register as a national
securities exchange because of the lighter regulatory requirements imposed on ATSs, as
compared to registered exchanges.
748 The Commission estimates the total number of

748 See supra Section II.D.
328
Communication Protocol Systems to be 22,749 and some or all of this total number will be
subject to the following collections of information as estimated below:750
Collection of
Information
Rule Number of
Respondents
Description
Rule 301 of
Regulation ATS
and Forms ATS
and ATS-R
Rule 301(b)(2) 14 The Commission estimates that
certain Communication Protocol
Systems, which trade securities
other than NMS stocks or
government securities or repos,
would be required to file the
proposed modernized Form ATS.
Rule 301(b)(5) 8 The Commission estimates that
certain Communication Protocol
Systems would meet the volume
thresholds in government
securities, NMS stocks, corporate
debt securities, municipal
securities, equity securities that
are not NMS stocks and for
which transactions are reported
to an SRO and be subject to the
Fair Access Rule and the related
recordkeeping and notice
provisions.
Rule 301(b)(6) 2 The Commission estimates that
certain Communication Protocol

749 Some of the below estimates could change based on how the Communication Protocol
Systems structure their operations if subject to Regulation ATS. For example, the
Commission is basing some of the below estimates on the assumption that operators of
Communication Protocol Systems that are affiliated with existing broker-dealers would
structure their operations so that the existing broker-dealer would operate the ATS to
avoid the costs of new broker-dealer registration. In addition, the Commission estimates
that 2 Communication Protocol Systems that trade municipal securities or corporate debt
securities would meet the volume thresholds to satisfy the conditions for complying with
ATS-specific systems capacity, integrity and security recordkeeping as well as systems
outages requirements. This number is based on aggregate data reported by broker-dealers
and could vary based on how these systems structure their businesses.
750 The estimated respondents for the Rule 304/Form ATS-N collection of information is
based on the assumption that systems that operate multiple market places that are
affiliated with a new or existing broker-dealer will all be operated by such broker-dealer,
and that such systems will not register multiple broker-dealers to operate multiple
affiliated ATSs.
329
Collection of
Information
Rule Number of
Respondents
Description
Systems that trade municipal
securities or corporate debt
securities and meet certain
volume requirements would
satisfy the conditions for
complying with ATS-specific
systems capacity, integrity and
security recordkeeping as well as
systems outages requirements.
Rule 301(b)(9) 22 The Commission estimates that
all Communication Protocol
Systems will have to comply
with the requirement to file
quarterly reports on the proposed
modernized Form ATS-R.
Rule 301(b)(10) 22 The Commission estimates that
all Communication Protocol
Systems will have to comply
with the requirement to have
written safeguards and written
procedures to protect subscribers'
confidential trading information.
Rule 302 of
Regulation ATS
Rule 302 22 The Commission estimates that
all Communication Protocol
Systems will have to comply
with the recordkeeping
requirements for ATSs.
Rule 303 of
Regulation ATS
Rule 303 22 The Commission estimates that
all Communication Protocol
Systems will have to comply
with the record preservation
requirements for ATSs
Rule 304 of
Regulation ATS
and Form ATS-N
Rule 304 8 The Commission estimates that
certain Communication Protocol
Systems that trade NMS stocks
or government securities or repos
would be required to file Form
ATS-N, as proposed to be
revised.
330
Collection of
Information
Rule Number of
Respondents
Description
Rule 15b1-1 and
Form BD
Rule 15b1-1 6 The Commission estimates that
certain Communication Protocol
Systems are not currently
registered as or affiliated with a
broker-dealer and will have to
register using Form BD.
Form ID Rule 101 of
Regulation S-T
6 The Commission estimates that
the same subset of
Communication Protocol
Systems that are not currently
registered as or affiliated with a
broker-dealer will also have to
file Form ID to apply for
EDGAR access.
Regulation SCI Rules 1001-
1007 of
Regulation SCI
2 The Commission estimates that
certain Communication Protocol
Systems that trade government
securities, NMS stocks, or equity
securities other than NMS stocks
reported to an SRO would meet
the specified volume threshold to
meet the proposed amended
definition of “SCI alternative
trading system” and be subject to
the requirements of Regulation
SCI.
3. NMS Stock ATSs
As discussed above, the Commission is proposing to revise Form ATS-N to include
information it previously proposed on Form ATS-G, including adding questions requiring
information about interaction with related markets, surveillance and monitoring on the ATS, and
liquidity providers, which would be required to be responded to by both Government Securities
ATSs and NMS Stock ATSs.751 The Commission is also proposing to reorganize certain

751 See supra Section IV.D.1.
331
questions on Form ATS-N.752 The Commission estimates the total number of NMS Stock ATSs
to be 34753 and that all will be subject to the following collections of information as estimated
below:
Collection of
Information
Rule Number of
Respondents
Description
Rule 301 of
Regulation ATS
and Forms ATS
and ATS-R
Rule 301(b)(9) 34 The Commission estimates that
all NMS Stock ATSs will have to
prospectively comply with the
requirement to file quarterly
reports on the proposed
modernized Form ATS-R.
Rule 304 of
Regulation ATS
and Form ATS-N
Rule 304 34 The Commission estimates that
all NMS Stock ATSs will be
required to re-file their current
electronic Form ATS-N
disclosure using Form ATS-N, as
proposed to be revised.

752 See id. and Section IV.D.4-5. In addition, for purposes of calculating whether an ATS
meets the Fair Access Rule volume thresholds, the Commission is proposing to aggregate
trading volume among certain affiliated ATSs. See supra Section V.A. At this time, the
Commission estimates that no NMS Stock ATSs would be subject to the Fair Access
Rule as a result of the proposed changes to aggregate affiliated ATS trading volume, and
that the proposed change would therefore impose no additional burden. Also see infra
note 1085.
753 As of September 30, 2021, there are 34 NMS Stock ATSs that have filed an effective
Form ATS-N with the Commission. For the purpose of this PRA analysis, NMS Stock
ATSs include only those that operate today. The burden on Communication Protocol
Systems that the Commission estimates will trade NMS stocks are included in the
discussion of that category of respondent. See supra, Section VII.C.2; infra, Section
VII.D.3.
332
4. Other Form ATS Filers
There is set of respondents (“Other Form ATS Filers”) that are currently required to file
Form ATS and are neither NMS Stock ATSs nor exclusively754 Legacy Government Securities
ATSs and will continue to have an obligation to file Form ATS after the effective date of any
final rule. These filers will incur burdens to comply with the proposed revisions to Forms ATS
and ATS-R discussed above.755 The Commission estimates the total number of Other Form ATS
Filers to be 59756 and that these respondents will be subject to the following collections of
information as estimated below:

754 Government Securities ATSs that also have trading activities other than in government
securities or repos will be required to separately report that activity on Form ATS after
the effective date of any final rule.
755 See supra Section V.B. In addition, for purposes of calculating whether an ATS meets
the Fair Access Rule volume thresholds, the Commission is proposing to aggregate
trading volume among certain affiliated ATSs. See supra Section V.A. At this time, the
Commission estimates that no Other Form ATS Filers would be subject to the Fair
Access Rule as a result of the proposed changes to aggregate affiliated ATS trading
volume, and that the proposed change would therefore impose no additional burden. As
discussed above, the Commission is also re-proposing to remove an exclusion from
compliance with the Fair Access Rule under Rule 301(b)(5) and the Capacity, Integrity,
and Security Rule under Rule 301(b)(6) that is applicable to ATSs that trade equities and
also re-proposing revisions to Rule 301(b)(2), Form ATS, and Form ATS-R to modernize
Form ATS and Form ATS-R and to provide that they are filed electronically. See id.
The Commission does not expect, however, that any ATSs will be newly subject to the
Fair Access Rule or the Capacity, Integrity, and Security Rule as a result of removing the
exclusion. Also see infra note 1085.
756 As of September 30, 2021, there are 61 ATSs that file Form ATS. Two of these trade
only government securities or repos and, as proposed, would only be required to file a
Form ATS-N and amendments to Form ATS-N after the effective date of any final rule.
Accordingly, the Commission estimates that 59 ATSs will continue to file Form ATS
amendments.
333
Collection of
Information
Rule Number of
Respondents
Description
Rule 301 of
Regulation ATS
and Forms ATS
and ATS-R
Rule 301(b)(2) 59 The Commission estimates that
all Other Form ATS Filers will
be required to re-file their current
paper Form ATS disclosure
using the proposed modernized
Form ATS.
Rule 301(b)(9) 59 The Commission estimates that
all Other Form ATS Filers will
have to comply prospectively
with the requirement to file
quarterly reports on the proposed
modernized Form ATS-R.
D. Total PRA Burdens
1. Burden of Rule 301 of Regulation ATS and Forms ATS and ATS-R
a. Rule 301(b)(2) Burden on Communication Protocol Systems and Other
Form ATS Filers
As discussed above, the Commission is proposing to amend Exchange Act Rule 3b-16(a),
which would cause Communication Protocol Systems to fall within the definition of “exchange”
and believes that such Communication Protocol Systems would likely choose to register as a
334
broker dealer and be regulated under the Regulation ATS exemption.757 Certain Communication
Protocol Systems that trade securities other than NMS stocks or government securities would be
subject to requirements under Rule 301(b)(2), including to file an IOR and amendments thereto
using the proposed modernized and electronic758 Form ATS.
Other Form ATS Filers – current Form ATS filers that are not required to file Form ATSN after the effective date of any final rule – would incur a burden to comply with the
requirements to file Form ATS using the proposed modernized form. To comply with the
requirements of revised Form ATS, such respondents would be required to re-file their most
recently-filed Form ATS IOR or Amendment to IOR using the proposed modernized Form ATS.
The Commission estimates an initial burden of 20.5 hours759 and an annual burden of 5 hours760

757 See supra Section II.D.
758 The Commission believes that the proposed electronic submission of Forms ATS and
ATS-R would impose no additional burden on existing filers under Regulation ATS such
as Other Form ATS Filers. These respondents would already have been required to
register as broker-dealers pursuant to Rule 301(b)(1), and registered broker-dealers have
been assigned a CIK number and do not need to submit a Form ID to access EDGAR. A
broker-dealer that has never used EDGAR to make electronic submissions may use its
assigned CIK number to receive access codes that will allow that broker-dealer operator
to submit Form ATS-N filings on EDGAR without needing to apply for a Form ID, so
the proposed changes would not impose a burden under the existing Rule 15b1-1 and
Form BD or Form ID collections of information on this category of respondents.
759 The Commission’s currently approved baseline burden for the average initial compliance
burden for each Form ATS IOR is 20 hours (Attorney at 13 hours + Compliance Clerk at
7 hours). See Extension Without Change of a Currently Approved Collection:
Regulation ATS Rule 301 Amendments; ICR Reference No. 202101-3235-011; OMB
Control No. 3235-0509 (June 9, 2018), available at
https://www.reginfo.gov/public/do/PRAViewDocument?ref_nbr=202101-3235-011
(“Rule 301 PRA Supporting Statement”). The Commission is proposing amendments to
Part I of Form ATS, which would add an additional burden of 0.5 hours per filing using
the modernized form (Compliance Clerk at 0.5 hours), and therefore the average
compliance burden for each Form ATS filing would be 20.5 hours. See supra Section
V.B and infra Section VII.E (discussing proposed changes).
760 The Commission’s currently approved baseline burden for the average ongoing
compliance burden for each amendment to a Form ATS IOR is 4 hours ((Attorney at 1.5
hours + Compliance Clerk at 0.5 hours) x 2 IOR amendments a year). See Rule 301 PRA
335
per respondent for complying with Rule 301(b)(2) and the following total initial and annual
burdens:
Burden Type Respondent Type Number of
Respondents
Burden per
Respondent
Total Burden
(Number of
Respondents x
Burden per
Respondent)
Initial Communication
Protocol Systems
14 20.5 hours 287 hours
Annual 5 hours 70 hours
Initial Other Form ATS Filers 59 20.5 hours 1,209.5 hours
Annual 5 hours 295 hours
b. Rule 301(b)(5) Burden on Communication Protocol Systems and Legacy
Government Securities ATSs
As discussed above, the Commission is proposing to apply the Fair Access Rule to the
trading of U.S Treasury Securities and Agency Securities. Certain Communication Protocol
Systems and Legacy Government Securities ATS that trade U.S Treasury Securities and Agency
Securities and meet the relevant thresholds would be newly subject to the requirements of Rule
301(b)(5) of Regulation ATS.761 In addition, for purposes of calculating whether an ATS meets
the Fair Access Rule volume thresholds, the Commission is proposing to aggregate trading
volume among certain affiliated ATSs, which will impose a burden on certain NMS Stock ATSs

Supporting Statement, supra note 759. The Commission is proposing amendments to
Part I of Form ATS, including a requirement applicable to an ATS filing an IOR
amendment to attach as Exhibit 3 a marked document to indicate changes to “yes” or
“no” answers and additions or deletions from any Item in Part I, Part II, and Part III,
which would add an additional annual burden of 1 hour per ATS using the modernized
form (Compliance Clerk at 0.5 hours x 2 IOR amendments a year). Therefore the
average compliance burden for each Form ATS filing would be 5 hours. See supra
Section V.B and infra Section VII.E (discussing proposed changes).
761 See supra Section II.D.2.
336
and Other Form ATS Filers that trade securities subject to the Fair Access Rule.762 There is no
initial burden associated with the currently approved collection of information for this
requirement.763 The Commission estimates an annual compliance burden of 37 hours per
respondent764 and the following total annual burdens:
Respondent Type Number of
Respondents
Annual Burden
per Respondent
Total Annual Burden
(Number of
Respondents x Annual
Burden per
Respondent)
Communication Protocol
Systems
8 37 hours 296 hours
Legacy Government
Securities ATSs
7 37 hours 259 hours
c. Rule 301(b)(6) Burden on Communication Protocol Systems
As discussed above, the Commission is proposing to amend Exchange Act Rule 3b-16(a)
to cause Communication Protocol Systems to fall within the definition of “exchange” and
believes that such Communication Protocol Systems would likely choose to register as a broker
dealer and be regulated under the Regulation ATS exemption. Certain Communication Protocol
Systems that trade municipal and corporate debt securities and meet the relevant thresholds
would be newly subject to the systems capacity, integrity, and security recordkeeping and
systems outages notice requirements of Rule 301(b)(6) of Regulation ATS. There is no initial

762 See proposed Rule 301(b)(5)(ii). See supra Section V.A.
763 See Rule 301 PRA Supporting Statement, supra note 759.
764 The Commission’s currently approved baseline for the average compliance burden per
respondent is 37 hours = 10 hours for Fair Access Standards recordkeeping (Attorney at 5
hours x 2 responses a year) + 27 hours for Fair Access notices (Attorney at 1 hour x 27
responses a year). See Rule 301 PRA Supporting Statement, supra note 759.
337
burden associated with the currently approved collection of information for this requirement.765
The Commission estimates an annual compliance burden of 11 hours per respondent766 and the
following total annual burden:
Respondent Type Number of
Respondents
Annual Burden
per Respondent
Total Annual Burden
(Number of
Respondents x Annual
Burden per
Respondent)
Communication Protocol
Systems
2 11.25 hours 22.5 hours
d. Rule 301(b)(9) Burden on All Respondents
All respondent categories – Communication Protocol Systems, Legacy Government
Securities ATSs, NMS Stock ATSs, and Other Form ATS Filers – are subject to the
requirements of Rule 301(b)(9) and would incur a burden to file quarterly transaction reports
using the proposed modernized and electronic767 Form ATS-R.
Presently, neither Currently Exempted Government Securities ATSs – the subset of
Legacy Government Securities ATSs not operating pursuant to a Form ATS on file with
Commission as of the effective date of any final rule – nor Communication Protocol Systems –
are required to file quarterly transaction information on Form ATS-R, but the proposed

765 See Rule 301 PRA Supporting Statement, supra note 759.
766 The Commission’s currently approved baseline for the average compliance burden per
respondent is 11.25 hours = 10 hours for systems capacity, integrity and security
recordkeeping (Attorney at 10 hours) + 1.25 hours for systems outages notice (Attorney at
.25 hours x 5 systems outages a year). See Rule 301 PRA Supporting Statement, supra
note 759.
767 As discussed above, the Commission believes that the proposed electronic submission of
Form ATS-R would impose no additional burden on current Forms ATS and ATS-N
filers. See supra note 758.
338
amendments will newly impose on all respondents in these categories the currently-approved
baseline burden of filing Form ATS-R and the additional burden of filing using the proposed
modernized form.768
Current Government Securities ATSs – the subset of Legacy Government Securities
ATSs operating pursuant to a Form ATS on file with Commission as of the effective date of any
final rule – as well as NMS Stock ATSs and Other Form ATS Filers already incur a burden to
file Form ATS-R, so the proposed rules would only impose upon them the new increased burden
of filing on the modernized version of Form ATS-R. There is no initial burden associated with
the currently approved collection of information for this requirement.769 The Commission
estimates an annual compliance burden of 19 hours per new Form ATS-R respondent770 and 3
hours per existing Form ATS-R respondent;771 and the following total annual burdens:

768 The Commission’s currently approved baseline for the average compliance burden for
each Form ATS-R filing is 4 hours (Attorney at 3 hours + Compliance Clerk at 1). See
Rule 301 PRA Supporting Statement, supra note 759. The Commission is proposing
amendments to Form ATS-R, which would add an additional burden of 0.75 hours per
filing (Compliance Manager at 0.25 hours + Compliance Clerk at 0.5), and therefore the
average compliance burden for each Form ATS-R filing would be 4.75 hours. See supra
Section V.B and infra Section VII.E (discussing proposed changes to Form ATS-R
applicable to all ATSs).
769 See Rule 301 PRA Supporting Statement, supra note 759.
770 The annual burden per Currently Exempted Government Securities ATS or
Communication Protocol System would be 4.75 hours x 4 quarterly filings annually = 19
burden hours.
771 The annual burden per existing Form ATS-R respondent would be 0.75 hours x 4
quarterly filings annually = 3 burden hours.
339
Respondent Type Number of
Respondents
Annual Burden
per Respondent
Total Annual Burden
(Number of
Respondents x Annual
Burden per
Respondent)
Communication Protocol
Systems
22 19 hours 418 hours
Currently Exempted
Government Securities ATSs
7 19 hours 133 hours
Current Government
Securities ATSs
17 3 hours 51 hours
NMS Stock ATSs 34 3 hours 102 hours
Other Form ATS Filers 59 3 hours 177 hours
e. Rule 301(b)(10) Burden on Communication Protocol Systems and Currently
Exempted Government Securities ATSs
Rule 301(b)(10) requires ATSs to establish adequate written safeguards and written
procedures to protect subscribers’ confidential trading information. Neither Currently Exempted
Government Securities ATSs nor Communication Protocol Systems are presently subject to any
of the requirements of Rule 301(b), but the current proposal will newly impose on all
respondents in these categories the currently-approved baseline burden of complying with Rule
301(b)(10) after the effective date of any final rule.
772 The Commission estimates an initial

772 The proposal would not impose a new burden on Current Government Securities ATSs,
NMS Stock ATSs, and Other Form ATS Filers, as these categories of respondents would
already be required to comply with Rule 301(b)(10) before the effective date of any final
rule.
340
burden of 8 hours773 and an annual burden of 4 hours774 per respondent for complying with Rule
301(b)(10) and the following total initial and annual burdens:
Burden Type Respondent Type Number of
Respondents
Burden per
Respondent
Total Burden
(Number of
Respondents x
Burden per
Respondent)
Initial Communication
Protocol Systems
22 8 hours 176 hours
Annual 4 hours 88 hours
Initial Currently Exempted
Government Securities
ATSs
7 8 hours 56 hours
Annual 4 hours 28 hours
2. Burden of Rules 302 and 303 of Regulation ATS on Communication Protocol
Systems and Currently Exempted Government Securities ATSs
Rule 301(b)(8) of Regulation ATS requires ATSs to comply with the recordkeeping
requirements of Rule 302 and the record preservation requirements of Rule 303. The proposal
would newly impose the currently-approved baseline burden of complying with these rules on
Communication Protocol Systems and Currently Exempted Government Securities ATS.
775 The

773 The Commission’s currently approved baseline for the average initial compliance burden
is 8 hours (Attorney at 7 hours + Compliance Clerk at 1 hour). See Rule 301 PRA
Supporting Statement, supra note 759.
774 The Commission’s currently approved baseline for the average ongoing compliance
burden is 4 hours (Attorney at 2 hours + Compliance Clerk at 2 hours). See Rule 301
PRA Supporting Statement, supra note 759.
775 The proposal would not impose a new burden on Current Government Securities ATSs,
NMS Stock ATSs, and Other Form ATS Filers, as these categories of respondents would
already be required to comply with Rules 302 and 303 before the effective date of any
final rule.
341
Commission estimates an annual burden of 45 hours per respondent to comply with Rule 302776
and 15 hours to comply with Rule 303;777 and the following total annual burdens:
Rule Respondent Type Number of
Respondents
Annual
Burden per
Respondent
Total Annual
Burden
(Number of
Respondents x
Annual Burden
per Respondent)
Rule 302 Communication
Protocol Systems
22 45 hours 990 hours
Rule 303 15 hours 330 hours
Rule 302 Currently Exempted
Government Securities
ATSs
7 45 hours 315 hours
Rule 303 15 hours 105 hours
3. Burden of Rule 304 of Regulation ATS and Form ATS-N on Communication
Protocol Systems, Legacy Government Securities ATSs, and NMS Stock ATSs
As discussed above, the Commission is proposing to amend Exchange Act Rule 3b-16(a)
to cause Communication Protocol Systems to fall within the definition of “exchange” and
believes that such Communication Protocol Systems would likely choose to register as a broker

776 The Commission’s currently approved baseline for the average compliance burden is 45
hours (Compliance Clerk at 45 hours). See Extension Without Change of a Currently
Approved Collection: Rule 302 (17 CFR 242.302) Recordkeeping Requirements for
Alternative Trading Systems; ICR Reference No. 201906-3235-011; OMB Control No.
3235-0510 (October 24, 2019), available at
https://www.reginfo.gov/public/do/PRAViewDocument?ref_nbr=201906-3235-011.
There is no initial burden associated with this rule.
777 The Commission’s currently approved baseline for the average compliance burden is 15
hours (Compliance Clerk at 15 hours). See Extension Without Change of a Currently
Approved Collection: Rule 303 (17 CFR 242.303) Record Preservation Requirements for
Alternative Trading Systems; ICR Reference No. 202101-3235-010; OMB Control No.
3235-0505 (June 25, 2021), available at
https://www.reginfo.gov/public/do/PRAViewDocument?ref_nbr=202101-3235-010.
There is no initial burden associated with this rule.
342
dealer and be regulated under the Regulation ATS exemption.778 Under the proposal,
Government Securities ATSs (inclusive of Communication Protocol Systems) would be subject
to the proposed changes to Regulation ATS related to Government Securities ATSs.
779 Those
respondents, as well as Communication Protocol Systems that trade NMS Stocks, will be newly
required to file Form ATS-N as revised,780 pursuant to Rule 304. In addition, existing NMS
Stock ATSs that do not also trade in government securities will, after the effective date of any
final rule, be required to re-file their most recent Form ATS-N or Form ATS-N amendment using
the revised Form ATS-N. The Commission estimates the initial burden for new filers of Form
ATS-N, as revised – Currently Exempted Government Securities ATSs and Communication
Protocol Systems that trade government securities or NMS Stocks – to be 136.4 hours.781 The
Commission estimates the initial burden for Current Government Securities ATSs, which

778 See supra Section II.D.
779 See supra Section III.
780 See supra Section IV.
781 The Commission’s currently approved baseline burden for the average initial compliance
burden for each initial Form ATS-N is 130.4 hours (currently approved baseline burden
to complete an initial Form ATS at 20 hours: Attorney at 13 hours and Compliance Clerk
at 7 hours; see Rule 301 PRA Supporting Statement, supra note 759) + (Part I at 0.5 hour)
+ (Part II at an average of 29 hours) + (Part III at an average of 78.75 hours) + (Access to
EDGAR at 0.15 hours) + (Posting link to published Form ATS-N on ATS website at 2
hours) = 130.4 burden hours. See Extension Without Change of a Currently Approved
Collection: Regulation ATS Rule 304 and Form ATS-N; ICR Reference No. 202109-
3235-014; OMB Control No. 3235-0763 (January 3, 2022), available at
https://www.reginfo.gov/public/do/PRAViewICR?ref_nbr=202109-3235-014 (“Rule 304
PRA Supporting Statement”). The aggregate totals by professional, including the
baseline, are estimated to be approximately 54.6 hours for an Attorney, 0.5 hours for a
Chief Compliance Manager, 34.55 hours for a Compliance Manager, 32.25 hours for a
Senior Systems Analyst, 1 hour for a Senior Marketing Manager, and 7.5 hours for a
Compliance Clerk. The Commission estimates that the proposed amendments to Form
ATS-N would add an additional burden of 6 hours per filing (Attorney at 2.5 hours,
Compliance Manager at 1.5 hours, Senior Systems Analyst at 1.5 hours, and Compliance
Clerk at 0.5 hours), and therefore the average compliance burden for each new Form
ATS-N filer would be 136.4 hours. See supra Section V.B and infra Section VII.E
(discussing proposed changes).
343
currently file on Form ATS, to file on Form ATS-N, as revised, to be 116.4 hours.782 The
Commission estimates the initial burden for existing NMS Stock ATSs that do not also trade
government securities, which currently file on Form ATS-N, to be 8 hours.783 The Commission
estimates that the annual burden for each new Form ATS-N respondent to file amendments to
Form ATS-N is 47 hours.784 The total estimated initial and annual785 burdens for each
respondent type are as follows:

782 The Commission estimates that existing Form ATS filers will not incur the portion of the
currently approved baseline burden to file an initial Form ATS-N that is attributable to
completing an initial Form ATS, estimated at 20 hours. See Rule 304 PRA Supporting
Statement, supra note 781. Thus, the total initial burden for these respondents will be
116.4 hours (130.4 hours baseline burden to file an Initial Form ATS-N – 20 hours + 6
hours per filing to complete the proposed revised items of Form ATS-N). See id.
783 The Commission estimates the proposal would impose upon current Form ATS-N filers a
one-time burden of 8 hours: the marginal burden of 6 hours to respond to the revised
items in the form (see supra note 781) + 2 hours for a Compliance Clerk to reorganize
their current Form ATS disclosures to respond to revised Form ATS-N.
784 The currently approved baseline burden for filing amendments to Form ATS-N is 47
hours ((Attorney at 5.5 hours + Compliance Manager at 2 hours + Compliance Clerk at
1.9 hours) x 5 amendments a year). See Rule 304 PRA Supporting Statement, supra note
781.
785 The currently approved baseline annual burden for Rule 304 contemplates NMS Stock
ATSs filing amendments to Form ATS-N, and this proposal does not add to that burden.
344
Burden Type Respondent Type Number of
Respondents
Burden per
Respondent
Total Burden
(Number of
Respondents x
Burden per
Respondent,
rounded to
nearest 0.5 hours)
Initial Communication
Protocol Systems
8 136.4 hours 1,091 hours
Annual 47 hours 376 hours
Initial Currently Exempted
Government
Securities ATSs
7 136.4 hours 955 hours
Annual 47 hours 329 hours
Initial Current Government
Securities ATSs
17 116.4 hours 1,979 hours
Annual 47 hours 799 hours
Initial NMS Stock ATSs 34 8 hours 272 hours
4. Burden of Rule 15b1-1 and Form BD on Communication Protocol Systems and
Currently Exempted Government Securities ATSs
Rule 301(b)(1) of Regulation ATS requires ATSs to register as a broker-dealer under
section 15 of the Act. The proposal would newly impose the currently-approved baseline burden
of complying with the Rule 15b1-1 and Form BD collection of information on certain
Communication Protocol Systems and Currently Exempted Government Securities ATSs that are
not already registered as broker-dealers.786 The Commission estimates an initial burden of 2.75

786 The proposal would not impose a new burden on Current Government Securities ATSs,
NMS Stock ATSs, and Other Form ATS Filers, as these categories of respondents are
already subject to the requirement of Regulation ATS, and specifically Rule 301(b)(1) to
register as a broker-dealer. The Commission also estimates that a subset of
Communication Protocol Systems and Currently Exempted Government Securities ATSs
would already be registered as broker-dealers.
345
hours787 and an annual burden of 1 hour788 per respondent for completing Form BD and the
following total initial and annual burdens:
Burden Type Respondent Type Number of
Respondents
Burden per
Respondent
Total Burden
(Number of
Respondents x
Burden per
Respondent,
rounded to
nearest 0.5
hours)
Initial Communication
Protocol Systems
6 2.75 hours 16.5 hours
Annual .95 hours 5.5 hours
Initial Currently Exempted
Government Securities
ATSs
1 2.75 hours 3 hours
Annual .95 hours 1 hour
5. Burden of Form ID on Communication Protocol Systems and Currently
Exempted Government Securities ATSs
The same subset of Communication Protocol Systems and Currently Exempted
Government Securities ATSs that are not already registered as broker-dealers discussed above
would also newly incur the currently-approved baseline burden of the Form ID collection of

787 The Commission’s currently approved baseline burden for the average initial compliance
burden for each Form BD is 2.75 hours (Compliance Manager at 2.75 hours). See
Extension Without Change of a Currently Approved Collection: Form BD and Rule
15b1-1. Application for registration as a broker- dealer; ICR Reference No. 201905-
3235-016; OMB Control No. 3235-0012 (August 7, 2019), available at
https://www.reginfo.gov/public/do/PRAViewDocument?ref_nbr=201905-3235-016.
(“Form BD PRA Supporting Statement”).
788 The Commission’s currently approved baseline burden for the average ongoing
compliance burden for each respondent amending Form BD is .95 hours (Compliance
Manager at 0.33 hours x 2.87 amendments per year). See Form BD PRA Supporting
Statement, supra note 787.
346
information necessary to apply for EDGAR access.789 The Commission estimates an initial
burden of 0.15 hours790 and no annual burden per respondent for completing Form ID, and the
following total burdens:
Respondent Type Number of
Respondents
Initial Burden
per Respondent
Total Initial Burden
(Number of
Respondents x Initial
Burden per
Respondent, rounded to
nearest 0.5 hours)
Communication Protocol
Systems
6 0.15 hours 1 hour
Currently Exempted
Government Securities ATSs
1 0.15 hours 0 hours
6. Burden of Regulation SCI on Communication Protocol Systems and Legacy
Government Securities ATSs
As discussed above, the Commission is re-proposing to amend Regulation SCI to expand
the definition of “SCI alternative trading system” to include Government Securities ATSs that
meet a specified volume threshold, which would, in turn, fall within the definition of “SCI
entity” and, as a result, be subject to the requirements of Regulation SCI.791 As proposed, (1)
Communication Protocol Systems that transact in U.S. Treasuries, Agency Securities, NMS
stocks, or equity securities other than NMS stocks reported to an SRO and (2) Legacy
Government Securities ATSs could become newly subject to the requirements of Regulation SCI

789 As discussed above, respondents burdened under the PRA by this proposal that are
already registered as broker-dealers would not incur this burden. See supra note 786.
790 See Revision of a Currently Approved Collection: Form ID - EDGAR Password; ICR
Reference No. 202104-3235-022; OMB Control No. 3235-0328 (April 29, 2021),
available at https://www.reginfo.gov/public/do/PRAViewDocument?ref_nbr=202104-
3235-022.
791 See supra Section III.C.
347
if they satisfy the thresholds set forth in the proposed amended definition of “SCI alternative
trading system.”792
The Commission estimates 2 Communication Protocol Systems will initially satisfy the
conditions and thresholds set forth in the proposed amended definition of “SCI alternative
trading system” that are not existing SCI entities or affiliated with SCI entities and will incur a
higher initial burden to comply. With respect to Legacy Government Securities ATSs, the
Commission estimates that 1 respondent will qualify as an SCI alternative trading system that is
currently an SCI entity or is affiliated with an SCI entity and will incur a lower initial burden to
comply with Regulation SCI, and 1 respondent will qualify as an SCI alternative trading systems
that is not an existing SCI entity or affiliated with an SCI entity and will incur the higher initial
burden to comply.
The Commission estimates an initial compliance burden for existing SCI entities of
1,017.15 hours,
793 an initial compliance burden for new SCI entities of 2,034.3 hours,794 an

792 The proposal would not impose a new burden on (1) Communications Protocol Systems
that transact in categories of securities that are not within the definition of “SCI
alternative trading system,” (2) NMS Stock ATSs, which are already subject to the
requirements of Regulation SCI (unless they are Communication Protocol Systems that
meet the Regulation SCI thresholds in NMS stocks), and (3) Other Form ATS Filers,
which, as defined in this proposal, do not transact in the categories of securities within
the definition of “SCI alternative trading system.”
793 The Commission’s currently approved baseline burden for the average initial compliance
burden for an existing SCI entity that is not an SRO or a plan processor is 1,017.15 hours.
See Extension Without Change of a Currently Approved Collection: Regulation SCI and
Form SCI; ICR Reference No. 201807-3235-001; OMB Control No. 3235-0703
(September 26, 2018) available at
https://www.reginfo.gov/public/do/PRAViewDocument?ref_nbr=201807-3235-001
(“2018 SCI PRA Supporting Statement”).
794 The Commission’s currently approved baseline burden for the average initial compliance
burden for an existing SCI entity that is not an SRO or a plan processor is 2,034.3 hours.
See 2018 SCI PRA Supporting Statement, supra note 793.
348
annual compliance burden for all qualifying SCI entities of 2,458.65 hours,795 and the following
total initial and annual burdens:
Burden Type Burden
Description/Respondent
Type
Number of
Respondents
Burden per
Respondent
Total Burden
(Number of
Respondents x
Burden per
Respondent,
rounded to
nearest 0.5
hours)
Initial Compliance with
Regulation SCI (Legacy
Government Securities
ATSs that are existing
SCI entities)
1 1,017.15
hours
1,017 hours
Annual 2,458.65
hours
2,458.5 hours
Initial Compliance with
Regulation SCI (Legacy
Government Securities
ATSs that are new SCI
entities)
1 2,034.3 hours 2,034.5 hours
Annual 2,458.65
hours
2,458.5 hours
Initial Compliance with
Regulation SCI
(Communication
Protocol Systems that are
new SCI entities)
2 2,034.3 hours 4,068.5 hours
Annual 2,458.65
hours
4,917.5 hours
E. Request for Comments
Pursuant to 44 U.S.C. 3506(c)(2)(B), the Commission solicits comments to:
178. Evaluate whether the proposed collection of information is necessary for the proper
performance of the Commission’s functions, including whether the information shall
have practical utility;

795 The Commission’s currently approved baseline burden for the average ongoing
compliance burden for an SCI entity that is not an SRO or a plan processor is 2,458.6
hours. See 2018 SCI PRA Supporting Statement, supra note 793.
349
179. Evaluate the accuracy of the Commission’s estimates of the burden of the proposed
collection of information;
180. Determine whether there are ways to enhance the quality, utility, and clarity of the
information to be collected;
181. Evaluate whether there are ways to minimize the burden of collection of information on
those who are to respond, including through the use of automated collection techniques or
other forms of information technology; and
182. Evaluate whether the proposed amendments would have any effects on any other
collection of information not previously identified in this section.
Persons submitting comments on the collection of information requirements should direct
them to the Office of Management and Budget, Attention: Desk Officer for the Securities and
Exchange Commission, Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, Washington, DC 20503,
and should also send a copy of their comments to Vanessa Countryman, Secretary, Securities and
Exchange Commission, 100 F Street NE, Washington, DC 20549-1090, with reference to File
Number S7-02-22. Requests for materials submitted to OMB by the Commission with regard to
this collection of information should be in writing, with reference to File Number S7-02-22 and
be submitted to the Securities and Exchange Commission, Office of FOIA/PA Services, 100 F
Street NE, Washington, DC 20549-2736. As OMB is required to make a decision concerning the
collection of information between 30 and 60 days after publication, a comment to OMB is best
assured of having its full effect if OMB receives it within 30 days of publication.
VIII. Economic Analysis
A. Introduction
350
We are mindful of the economic effects that may result from the proposed amendments,
including the benefits, costs, and the effects on efficiency, competition, and capital formation.796
This section analyzes the expected economic effects of the proposed rules relative to the current
baseline, which consists of the current market and regulatory framework in existence today.
A significant number of buyers and sellers for securities are brought together through
Communication Protocol Systems, Government Securities ATSs, ATSs trading other securities
asset classes, and registered exchanges, but this activity is subject to different regulations
according to the type of venue and asset class. By amending Exchange Act Rule 3b-16 to
include Communication Protocol Systems within the definition of exchange and ending the
exemption for Government Securities ATSs, the proposed amendments would functionally apply
Regulation ATS to an additional number of entities not currently regulated by it. This would
have a number of benefits, including enhanced regulatory oversight and protection for investors,
a reduction in trading costs and improvement in execution quality, and enhancement of price
discovery and liquidity.
The proposed amendments would also have costs for those entities subject to new
requirements, including compliance costs associated with filing forms such as Form ATS-N or
Form ATS, protecting confidential information, keeping certain records, and complying with the
Fair Access Rule and/or Regulation SCI.

796 Exchange Act Section 3(f) requires the Commission, when it is engaged in rulemaking
pursuant to the Exchange Act and is required to consider or determine whether an action
is necessary or appropriate in the public interest, to consider, in addition to the protection
of investors, whether the action will promote efficiency, competition, and capital
formation. See 15 U.S.C. 78c(f). In addition, Exchange Act Section 23(a)(2) requires the
Commission, when making rules pursuant to the Exchange Act, to consider among other
matters the impact that any such rule would have on competition and not to adopt any
rule that would impose a burden on competition that is not necessary or appropriate in
furtherance of the purposes of the Exchange Act. See 15 U.S.C. 78w(a)(2).
351
B. Baseline
1. Current State of Communication Protocol Systems
Communication Protocol Systems bring together buyers and sellers of securities through
the use of non-firm trading interest and by providing structured methods for communication.
Three common types of protocols, RFQ, stream axes, and conditional order protocols, along with
their potential advantages and disadvantages for participants, are described in following
subsections.797 Subsequent sections discuss details of Communication Protocol Systems that are
particular to different asset classes.798
a. Request-for-Quote Protocol
As described in Section II.B.2, an RFQ protocol system typically allows market
participants to obtain quotes for a particular security by simultaneously sending messages to one
or more potential respondents. The initiating participant is typically required to provide
information related to the request in a message, which may include the name of the initiating
participant, CUSIP, side, and size. Participants that observe the initiating participant’s request
have the option to respond to the request with a price quote. These respondents are typically
dealers in the relevant asset class, and are often, though not always, pre-selected. The initiating
participant can then select among the respondents by either accepting one of multiple responses
or rejecting all responses, usually within a “good for” time period. After the initiating participant
and a respondent agree on the terms of the trade, the trade will then proceed to post-trade
processing.

797 See infra Tables VIII.5 and VIII.6 for a breakdown of the market share of different
protocols, including ATS protocols, in the markets for government securities and
corporate debt.
798 See infra Sections VIII.B.2.b, VIII.B.3.b, VIII.B.4.b, VIII.B.5.d, VIII.B.6.b, and VIII.B.7.
352
Initiating participants have an incentive to invite multiple respondents to an RFQ,
because receiving more quotes increases price competition and thus may improve execution
quality.799 The Commission understands that it is common for an RFQ to include at least three
participants.
The number of respondents that are invited to participate in the RFQ is generally less
than the total number of dealers available through the system.800 There may be several reasons
for this. First, the Commission understands that the system itself may limit the total number of
respondents that can be selected for a single RFQ, typically to five counterparties. This
limitation may encourage dealers to respond to RFQs, since it reduces the number of other
dealers they would compete with in any give request session.
A second reason stems from the initiating participant’s possible incentive to limit the
degree of information leakage. If the trade the initiating participant is seeking to complete with
the help of the RFQ is not completely filled in that one session, and other participants know this,
quotes the initiating participant receives elsewhere may be affected, including in subsequent
RFQ sessions.
A third reason is that respondents and initiators both have an incentive to limit price
impact because of the expense it will add to the offsetting trade that must follow. Specifically, a
dealer who takes a position to fill a customer order through an RFQ will often subsequently
offset that position in the interdealer market. If a large number of dealers are invited to
participate in an RFQ, this would lead to widespread knowledge that the dealer with the winning

799 See MarketAxess Letter at 3, stating that variations of the RFQ protocol can allow clients
to simultaneously request liquidity on an anonymous basis from over 1,000 platform
participants, and that connecting to more counterparties improves trading outcomes and
lowers transaction costs for liquidity providers and takers.
800 See supra Section V.A.3, discussing the applicability of fair access to platforms where
each participant has discretion over which other participants they want to trade.
353
bid will now try to offset that position, which could impact the prices available to that dealer in
the interdealer market.
Because RFQs give the initiating participant the opportunity to mitigate the information
leakage described above, they may give the initiating participant more control over its
information than a limit order book (“LOB”). 801
Once the initiator receives responses from the counterparties, the initiator can select a
quote with which to trade. On some RFQ platforms, it is at this point that both sides become
committed to the trade. However, there are other RFQ platforms which allow the respondent an
opportunity to confirm the trade. Additionally, after the RFQ session has ended, the system may
inform other respondents to the RFQ of the price of the second best quote. This allows them to
get information as to what other respondents are quoting in the market, while limiting
information leakage regarding the details of the actual trade that took place.
Anonymous RFQ sessions may reduce information leakage more than a disclosed RFQ,
because the identity of the initiating participant might otherwise reveal something about the
initiating participant’s willingness to pay.802 However, this means respondents are not able to
price quotes on the basis of an ongoing relationship with the counterparty.
RFQ systems have disadvantages for the initiating participants, when compared with
LOBs. For liquid securities, trading on an RFQ system results in less price competition among
respondents when compared with an LOB, if the number of respondents are limited. Compared
 801 This reduction in information leakage may be offset by the fact that on disclosed RFQs,
the initiator’s identity is revealed to participants in the session, which may be an
especially sensitive bit of information to reveal.
802 The use of anonymous RFQ is not uniform across asset classes. The Commission
preliminarily believes that anonymous RFQ is uncommon in the market for U.S. Treasury
Securities.
354
to an LOB, respondents cannot see what quotes they would have to beat to win the auction, and
may not have to compete with as many respondents to provide a quote.
Also, the Commission understands that there may be less straight-through processing
when trading is conducted via an RFQ protocol system, as opposed to on an exchange.
Furthermore, depending on the type of asset being traded, there may not be centralized means of
clearing and settlement available. For these reasons, the Commission understands that one
reason why disclosed RFQs are used is so that RFQ initiating participants can choose dealers
with whom the initiator has an established relationship.803 Then, after an RFQ session has
ended, all necessary processing for the trade is completed through this relationship, in the same
way that a transaction might be processed via bilateral voice trading.804
In order to facilitate processing of the trade while maintaining the anonymity of the
counterparties, the operator of the anonymous RFQ, which is typically a broker-dealer, may act
as a counterparty to each side of the trade. Also, the Commission understands that anonymous
RFQs are often received by all liquidity providers participating on the platform, instead of a preselected few. The Commission understands that providing an intermediary broker to act as a
counterparty to each side of a trade on the system may also function as a convenience to RFQ
participants generally, by allowing the system to help facilitate more straight-through processing.
As described in Section II.B.2, RFQ Lists, also referred to as BWIC or OWIC,805 are a
variation of the RFQ protocol in which quotes are solicited for multiple securities
simultaneously. Market participants use RFQ Lists to complete trades in a number of different
securities at the same time. Bringing all liquidity providers together into a single, multi-security

803 See, e.g., MarketAxess Letter at 5, stating that the majority of RFQ trades are completed
on a name-disclosed basis with no central clearing party.
804 Bilateral voice trading refers to telephone calls, chat messages, etc.
805 See supra note 58.
355
RFQ may be a more efficient way of trading multiple securities at once than initiating a separate
RFQ session for each security, especially if it is important to complete the trades close together
in time. However, the use of the joint session may reveal more about the trading intentions of
the initiator to its counterparties than using separate RFQ sessions, where information leakage is
more limited, as respondents may be less aware of the complete position the initiator is seeking
to take.
b. Stream Axes
As defined in Section II.B.2, “stream axes” are systems that electronically display
continuous trading interest (firm or non-firm) in a security or type of security to participants on
the systems. The Commission understands a typical stream axe to operate as follows: dealers
submit an indication or indications of interest (“axe” or “axes”), which may include price quotes
and sizes for buying and selling securities. Axes are streamed to participants, updating
continuously as dealers adjust prices and inventory offerings. A market participant may choose
an axe with which to trade at the broadcasted price and size. In some cases, the axes are
streamed on a non-anonymous basis, which permits the prices to be customized to the recipient
on the basis of the relationship between the recipient and the dealer.
Stream axes differ from RFQs in that the dealer streaming the axes receives less
information about the counterparty’s trading intentions before the trade is agreed to. Stream axes
are similar to an LOB in this way. This lack of information may end up reflected in the prices
the dealer chooses to stream, as well as the type of dealer who chooses to participate in stream
axes. Therefore, the decision to use an RFQ or stream axe may depend on the trading intentions
of the participant. The stream axes protocol gives the participant receiving the stream the free
option to trade at whatever price is being streamed at the moment, without revealing anything
about its trading intentions beyond its identity. On the other hand, this may be less conducive to
trading in certain sizes, and may not result in the same price as an RFQ.
356
c. Conditional Order Protocol
Section II.B.2 defines conditional orders as trading interest that may not be executable
until after a user takes subsequent action, for example, sending a firm-up invitation message to
other participants. Conditional order protocols often allow the matched parties to modify the
attributes of the non-firm trading interest before accepting the firm-up invitation. If both
matching parties accept the firm-up invite, the parties would agree upon the terms of the trade
and an execution would occur.
Unlike LOBs, conditional order protocols allow participants to ultimately decline a
transaction after receiving a response to their quote. This may be particularly useful for large
size orders or for illiquid securities, for which search costs may be particularly high. For
example, participants can place conditional orders on various systems in search of liquidity, and
use the fact that the orders are non-firm to avoid the risk of double-execution by declining some
responses if they receive more than one. However, the ability for the matched counterparty to
also decline to transact implies that the risk of non-execution on conditional order protocols is
likely higher than that of LOBs.
2. Current State of Government Securities Market
The market for U.S. Government securities is large both in terms of the outstanding debt
and daily trading volume. According to the Treasury Department, as of the end of 2020, the total
amount outstanding of marketable Treasury Securities was approximately $21 trillion.806 The
Financial Accounts of the United States Z.1 released by the Federal Reserve Board shows that
the amount outstanding of Agency- and GSE-Backed Securities is about $10.1 trillion, as of the

806 See Monthly Statement of the Public Debt of the United States, dated December 31,
2020, available at
https://www.treasurydirect.gov/govt/reports/pd/mspd/2020/opds122020.pdf.
357
end of 2020.807 According to data published by SIFMA, in September 2021, the average daily
trading volume in government securities was about $850.1 billion, or roughly 95 percent of all
fixed income trading volume in the U.S.808 This includes $582.1 billion average daily trading in
U.S. Treasury Securities, $265.7 billion in Agency MBSs, and $2.4 billion in other Agency
Securities.
a. ATSs in the Market for U.S. Government Securities
i. Operations and Market Share of Government Securities ATSs
The variety of market participants trading on Government Securities ATSs has increased
since their inception. While Government Securities ATSs in the market for U.S. Treasury
Securities historically only allowed bank and non-bank dealers809 to trade, beginning in 2003,
firms that were neither banks nor dealers, such as hedge funds, insurance companies, and PTFs,
gained permission from the ATSs to trade directly on Government Securities ATSs.810 The
Commission estimates that there are currently 17 ATSs trading in government securities (either

807 See Financial Accounts of the United States Z.1 at 177, available at
https://www.federalreserve.gov/releases/z1/20210311/z1.pdf.
808 See SIFMA Fixed Income Trading Volume, available at
https://www.sifma.org/resources/research/us-fixed-income-securities-statistics/. The
stated figures include Treasury Securities, Agency MBS, and Federal Agency Securities.
809 Absent an exception or an exemption, Section 15(a)(1) of the Exchange Act makes it
unlawful for a “dealer” to effect any transactions in, or to induce or attempt to induce the
purchase or sale of, any security unless registered with the Commission in accordance
with Section 15(b) of the Exchange Act. Similarly, Section 15C of the Exchange Act
makes it unlawful for a “government securities dealer” (other than a registered brokerdealer or financial institution) to induce or attempt to induce the purchase or sale of any
government security unless such government securities dealer is registered in accordance
with Section 15C(a)(2).
810 See Letter from Jim Greco, CEO, Direct Match, to David R. Pearl, Office of the
Executive Secretary, U.S. Department of the Treasury, dated April 22, 2016, (“Direct
Match Letter”) at 5, available at
https://www.treasurydirect.gov/instit/statreg/gsareg/RFIcommentletterDirectMatch.pdf
at 6-7.
358
Treasury or Agency securities, or both) that have a Form ATS on file.
811 Additionally, the
Commission estimates that 7 Currently Exempted Government Securities ATSs are not currently
required to register as a national securities exchange or comply with Regulation ATS.812
Currently, Government Securities ATSs account for a significant percentage of all
Treasury trading activity reported to TRACE.
813 As shown in Table VIII.1, ATSs accounted for
approximately 32 percent of U.S. Treasury Securities trading volume in the first half of 2021.
Dealer participants on current ATSs use them as a source of liquidity in government securities,

811 See supra Section VII.C.1. The Commission estimates that some of these ATSs only
support Treasuries trading to facilitate hedging in conjunction with corporate bonds
transactions, but typically are not used for outright Treasuries trading. See also ICE
Bonds Letter I at 3, stating that this offering of Government Securities ATSs gives
participants the convenience of electronically trading in instruments with correlated
trading activities in a centralized location.
812 As discussed in Section I, a Currently Exempted Government Securities ATS is defined
as an ATS that limits its securities activities to government securities or repos and
registers as a broker-dealer or is a bank. Currently Exempted Government Securities
ATSs transact exclusively in government securities or repos, and are not required to file a
Form ATS.
813 TRACE aggregation and analysis methods follow those used by Treasury market
regulators and FINRA, including adjustments for multiple trade reports for a single
transaction and counting only one trade report for an ATS or inter-dealer broker (“IDB”).
Commission staff uses the regulatory version of TRACE in its analysis.
A “Give-Up” ID is reported when a principal to a transaction delegates another
participant to report a trade on its behalf. When a “Give-Up” ID is reported, the
corresponding reporting or contra- party is replaced with the “Give-Up” ID. This ensures
that trades are attributed to the principals to each transaction. System control numbers
are used to link corrected, canceled, and reversed trade messages with original new trade
messages. In these cases, only corrected trades are kept and all cancellation and reversal
messages and their corresponding new trade messages are removed.
Special care must be taken when counting market volume. When a FINRA registered
broker directly purchases from another FINRA member, two trade messages are
created. If those FINRA registered brokers transact through an IDB, four trade messages
are created, two for the IDB and one for each member. In both cases, the volume from
only one report is needed. To ensure that double counting of transactions does not occur,
only the following trade messages are summed to calculate market volume: sales to nonIDB members, sales to identified customers, such as banks, hedge funds, asset managers,
and PTFs, and purchases from and sales to customers and affiliates. Any trade in which
the contra-party is an IDB is excluded. Thus, in the case of trades involving IDBs, only
the IDBs’ sale message is added to overall volume.
359
including the liquidity needed to efficiently fill customer orders outside the current ATSs. The
Commission understands that this means some portion of dealer transactions on Government
Securities ATSs are associated with the dealers’ activity in filling customer orders.
Treasury
Securities
Agency
Securities
Num. of
Unique
Platforms
Num. of Current Gov. Sec. ATSs 13 7 15
Num. of Currently Exempted Gov. Sec. ATSs 5 1 5
Num. of Grouped-Affiliated ATSs 18 7 -
Total volume share of Current Gov. Sec. ATSs 24.5% 11.6% -
Total volume share of Currently Exempted Gov. Sec. ATSs 9.6% 0.7% -
Total volume share of Grouped-Affiliated ATSs Companies 34.1% 12.3% -
Above 10% Market Share:
Num. of Current Gov. Sec. ATSs 1 1 2
Num. of Currently Exempted Gov. Sec. ATSs 0 0 0
Num. of Grouped-Affiliated ATSs 2 1 -
Total volume share of Current Gov. Sec. ATSs 15.2% 11.6% -
Total volume share of Currently Exempted Gov. Sec. ATSs - - -
Total volume share of Grouped-Affiliated ATSs 15.2% - -
Above 5% Market Share:
Num. of Current Gov. Sec. ATSs 2 1 2
Num. of Currently Exempted Gov. Sec. ATSs 0 0 0
Num. of Grouped-Affiliated ATSs 4 1 -
Total volume share of Current Gov. Sec. ATSs 21.3% 11.6% -
Total volume share of Currently Exempted Gov. Sec. ATSs - - -
Total volume share of Grouped-Affiliated ATSs 23.7% - -
Above 4% Market Share:
Num. of Current Gov. Sec. ATSs 2 1 2
Num. of Currently Exempted Gov. Sec. ATSs 0 0 0
Num. of Grouped-Affiliated ATSs 4 1 -
Total volume share of Current Gov. Sec. ATSs 21.3% 11.6% -
Total volume share of Currently Exempted Gov. Sec. ATSs - - -
Total volume share of Grouped-Affiliated ATSs 23.7% - -
Above 3% Market Share:
Num. of Current Gov. Sec. ATSs 2 1 2
Num. of Currently Exempted Gov. Sec. ATSs 2 0 2
Num. of Grouped-Affiliated ATSs 8 1 -
Total volume share of Current Gov. Sec. ATSs 21.3% 11.6% -
Total volume share of Currently Exempted Gov. Sec. ATSs 7.9% - -
Total volume share of Grouped-Affiliated ATSs 32.0% - -
Above 2% Market Share:
360
Num. of Current Gov. Sec. ATSs 3 1 3
Num. of Currently Exempted Gov. Sec. ATSs 2 0 2
Num. of Grouped-Affiliated ATSs 8 1 -
Total volume share of Current Gov. Sec. ATSs 23.7% 11.6% -
Total volume share of Currently Exempted Gov. Sec. ATSs 7.9% - -
Total volume share of Grouped-Affiliated ATSs 32.0% - -
Table VIII.1: ATS Market Share Analysis
Each panel reports the volume share (%) for Government Securities ATSs and the number of
Government Securities ATSs above the specified market share level. Grouped-Affiliated ATSs
refer to ATSs operated by a common broker-dealer or affiliated broker-dealer and for which
their volume would be aggregated under the proposed changes to the Fair Access Rule. Treasury
Securities include nominal bonds, TIPS and STRIPS. Agency Securities include Agency
Debentures, Agency Collateralized Mortgage Obligations, and Agency Pass-Through Mortgage
Backed Securities.a
 Trading volume is measured in dollar volume in par value. Data is based on
the regulatory version of TRACE for U.S. Treasury Securities and TRACE for Agency
Securities from April 1, 2021 to September 30, 2021.
b,c
a Agency Pass-through Mortgage Backed Securities include those traded in specified pool transactions and those to
be announced. “Agency Debenture” is equivalent to “Federal Agency Security,” as used in Part I, Item 8(b) of
Form ATS-N. “Agency Mortgage Backed Securities” as used in Part I, Item 8(b) of Form ATS-N include both
“Agency Collateralized Mortgage Obligations” and “Agency Pass-Through Mortgage Backed Securities.”
b The analysis based on TRACE is necessarily limited to transactions reported to TRACE, which may not be all
transactions in government securities. Transactions that take place on non-FINRA member ATSs or between two
non-FINRA members are not reported to TRACE. c Trades reported to TRACE may include trades conducted on a Communication Protocol System if one participant
in the trade is a FINRA member. The volume reported in this table is categorized given this limitation.
Government Securities ATSs have evolved such that they operate with a level of
technology use and speed of trading that is similar to that observed on NMS Stock ATSs,
particularly in the secondary electronic cash market for on-the-run U.S. Treasury Securities.
814
Some Government Securities ATSs operate as anonymous LOB systems and offer features such
as low latency connectivity, direct market data feeds, co-location services, and a variety of order
types. In addition to facilitating low latency trading, the Commission understands that the data
feeds provided by Government Securities ATS serve as a source for real-time prices in the

814 See October 15 Staff Report, supra note 188, at 35-36, discussing increased electronic
trading in the market for Treasuries. See also Bloomberg Letter at 5, stating that liquid
on-the-run government securities are mostly traded on central limit order books and
Bloomberg Letter at 21, stating that ATSs are a significant source of liquidity for on-therun U.S. Treasury Securities.
361
market for government securities.815 In providing such information to market participants about
Treasury prices in particular, these feeds may serve as a source for real-time risk-free rate
benchmarks, which help price other financial instruments.
PTFs have a significant presence on Government Securities ATSs.
816 Table VIII.2 shows
that, during April to September of 2021, PTFs accounted for approximately 25.4 percent of total
on-the-run U.S. Treasury Securities ATS trading volume. There were 41 PTFs operating on
ATSs that trade U.S. Treasury Securities as of August 2021. The Commission understands that
PTFs trading on the electronic market for U.S. Treasury Securities often employ automated,
algorithmic trading strategies that rely on speed and allow the PTFs to quickly execute trades, or
cancel or modify quotes in response to perceived market events.817 The Commission
understands that PTFs contribute liquidity to the trading environment on Government Securities
ATSs.
818
On-the-Run U.S. Treasury Securities Trading Volume
Num. of
Venues Volume
Volume Share
(%)
ATSs 18 812,480 49.7
Customer trades 11 52,754 3.2
Dealer trades 18 344,781 21.1
PTF trades 11 414,945 25.4
Non-ATS Interdealer Brokers 24 118,067 7.2
Customer trades 19 77,334 4.7
Dealer trades 23 40,252 2.5
PTF trades 9 481 0.0a
Bilateral dealer-to-dealer trades 352 92,051 5.6

815 See Letter from Dan Cleaves, Chief Executive Officer, BrokerTec Americas, and Jerald
Irving, President, ICAP Securities USA LLC, to David R. Pearl, Office of the Executive
Secretary, Treasury Department, dated April 22, 2016 at 7, available at
https://www.treasurydirect.gov/instit/statreg/gsareg/ICAPTreasuryRFILetter.pdf.
816 See supra Section III.A.
817 See October 15 Staff Report at 32, 35-36, 39.
818 One market participant stated that this liquidity provision may fill a gap that was left after
the introduction of post-2008 financial crisis regulations and their subsequent effects on
dealers. See Direct Match Letter at 7.
362
Bilateral dealer-to-customer trades 333 604,823 37.0
Bilateral dealer-to-PTF trades 97 7,250 0.4
Total - 1,634,671 100.0
Table VIII.2: On-the-run U.S. Treasury Securities Trading Volume
This table reports trading volume and volume share for ATSs,
b Non-ATS interdealer brokers,
bilateral dealer-to-dealer transactions, bilateral dealer-to-customer, and bilateral dealer-to-PTF
transactions for on-the-run U.S. Treasury Securities. On-the-run U.S. Treasury Securities are
the most recently issued nominal coupon securities. Nominal coupon securities pay a fixed
semi-annual coupon and are currently issued at original maturities of 2, 3, 5, 7, 10, 20, and 30
years. Treasury Bills and Floating Rate Notes are excluded. Volume is the average weekly
dollar volume in par value (in millions of dollars) over the 6-month period, from April 1,
2021, to September 30, 2021.c
 Number of Venues is the number of different trading venues in
each category and the number of distinct MPIDs for bilateral transactions.d
 Market Share (%)
is the measure of the dollar volume as a percent of total dollar volume.e
 The volumes of ATSs
and non-ATS interdealer brokers are broken out by Customer trades, Dealer trades, and PTF
trades within each group.f
 Data is based on the regulatory version of TRACE for U.S.
Treasury Securities from April 1, 2021, to September 30, 2021. Bilateral trades are a catchall
classification that may include trades conducted via bilateral negotiation, as well as trades
conducted electronically via platforms not registered with FINRA as an ATS. Bilateral trades
may include trades conducted on Communication Protocol Systems.
a The percentage to the nearest non-zero is 0.02%.
b See supra notes b and c in Table VIII.1 c FINRA reports volume as par volume, where par volume is the volume measured by the face value of the bond,
in dollars. See relevant weekly volume files, available at https://www.finra.org/filingreporting/trace/data/trace-treasury-aggregates.
d Dealers are counted using the number of distinct MPIDs.
e Total dollar volume (in par value) is calculated as the sum of dollar volume for ATSs, non-ATS interdealer
brokers, bilateral dealer-to-dealer transactions, and bilateral dealer-to-customer transactions. f We identify ATS trades and non-ATS interdealer broker trades using MPID in the regulatory version of TRACE
for U.S. Treasury Securities. The regulatory version of TRACE for U.S. Treasury Securities includes an
identifier for customer and interdealer trades. Furthermore, we use MPID for non-FINRA member subscriber
counterparties in the regulatory version of TRACE for U.S. Treasury Securities to identify PTF trades on
ATSs.
Table VIII.1 also shows that trading in the Treasury Securities market is concentrated on
a few large ATSs.819 The largest ATS by Treasury dollar volume has 15.2 percent of the total
Treasury Securities market reported to TRACE. Two Government Securities ATSs have dollar

819 All ATSs identified in this table are determined by the regulatory version of TRACE.
TRACE data contains an identifier for trades occurring on ATSs, identifying the MPID of
the ATS.
363
volumes that are over five percent of the total TRACE volume figure, and four have dollar
volumes over three percent.
Table VIII.2 shows that the majority of trading in on-the-run government securities
reported to TRACE goes through Government Securities ATSs. Specifically, Government
Securities ATSs accounted for nearly 50 percent of total dollar volume.
When on-the-run securities transition to off-the-run status, their trading activity shifts
away from Government Securities ATSs, and towards other transaction methods, including
Communication Protocol Systems.
820 This is reflected in Table VIII.3, which shows that
Government Securities ATSs account for approximately 21 percent of the total dollar volume of
off-the-run Treasury trading reported to TRACE.
821 Table VIII.3 also shows that, while dealers
remain a significant contributor to ATS trading in Treasury Securities in the off-the-run market,
PTFs make up a smaller percentage of volume than they do in the on-the-run market.
Off-the-Run U.S. Treasury Securities Trading Volume
Num. of
Venues Volume
Volume Share
(%)
ATSs 17 110,945 21.7
Customer trades 10 13,304 2.1
Dealer trades 17 83,668 13.0
PTF trades 11 13,973 2.2
Non-ATS Interdealer Brokers 22 43,604 6.8
Customer trades 18 15,092 2.4
Dealer trades 21 28,451 4.4
PTF trades 12 61 0.0a
Bilateral dealer-to-dealer trades 509 47,912 7.5
Bilateral dealer-to-customer trades 333 437,665 68.2
Bilateral dealer-to-PTF trades 114 1,415 0.2
Total - 641,540 100.0
Table VIII.3: Off-the-Run U.S. Treasury Securities Trading Volume

820 One commenter referenced that market participants trading in less liquid off-the-run
securities are better able to find liquidity in non-ATS trading methods. See Bloomberg
Letter at 5 and 21-22.
821 See supra note 193.
364
This table reports trading volume and volume share for ATSs,
b non-ATS interdealer brokers,
bilateral dealer-to-dealer transactions, bilateral dealer-to-customer, and bilateral dealer-to-PTF
transactions for off-the-run U.S. Treasury Securities. Off-the-run or “seasoned” U.S. Treasury
Securities include TIPS, STRIPS, and nominal coupon securities issues that preceded the
current on-the-run nominal coupon securities. Number of Venues is the number of different
trading venues in each category and the number of distinct MPIDs for bilateral transactions.
Volume is the average weekly dollar volume in par value (in millions of dollars) over the 6-
month period, from April 1, 2021, to September 30, 2021. Market Share (%) is the measure
of the dollar volume as a percent of the total dollar volume. The volumes of ATSs and nonATS interdealer brokers are broken out by Customer trades, Dealer trades, and PTF trades
within each group.c
 Data is based on the regulatory version of TRACE for U.S. Treasury
Securities from April 1, 2021, to September 30, 2021. Bilateral trades are a catchall
classification that may include trades conducted via bilateral negotiation, as well as trades
conducted electronically via platforms not registered with FINRA as an ATS. Bilateral trades
may include trades conducted on Communication Protocol Systems.
a The percentage to the nearest non-zero is 0.009%.
b See supra notes b and c of Table VIII.1 c We identify ATS trades and non-ATS interdealer broker trades using MPID in the regulatory version of
TRACE for U.S. Treasury Securities. The regulatory version of TRACE for U.S. Treasury Securities includes
an identifier for customer and interdealer trades. Furthermore, we use MPID for non-FINRA member
subscriber counterparties in the regulatory version of TRACE for U.S. Treasury Securities to identify PTF
trades on ATSs.
Government Securities ATSs also play a significant role in the market for Agency
Securities, accounting for approximately 12 percent of the total dollar volume reported to
TRACE. Like in the Treasury market, dealers play a significant role in trading on ATSs for
Agency Securities.
822
It is the Commission’s understanding that PTFs play only a small role in the market for
Agency Securities. The Commission invites comment on the role of PTFs in trading Agency
Securities. The Commission also requests comment on the providers of liquidity in the market
for Agency Securities.
Agency Securities Trading Volume
Num. of Venues Volume Volume Share (%)

822 Agency Securities are those issued by U.S. Government sponsored enterprises (“GSEs”)
such as Federal Home Loan Banks (“FHLBs”), the Federal National Mortgage
Association (“Fannie Mae”), and the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation
(“Freddie Mac”).
365
ATSs 8 31,940 12.3
Customer trades 7 6,767 2.6
Dealer trades 7 25,173 9.7
PTF trades 3 1 0.0a
Non-ATS Interdealer Brokers 13 7,935 3.0
Customer trades 9 1,096 0.4
Dealer trades 13 6,838 2.6
PTF trades 5 0 0.0b
Bilateral dealer-to-dealer trades 470 12,170 4.7
Bilateral dealer-to-customer trades 470 206,777 79.9
Bilateral dealer-to-PTF trades 84 3 0.0c
Total - 264,916 100.0
Table VIII.4: Agency Securities Trading Volume
This table reports trading volume and volume share for ATSs,
d
 non-ATS interdealer brokers,
bilateral dealer-to-dealer transactions, and bilateral dealer-to-customer transactions for U.S.
Agency Securities. Agency Securities include Agency Debentures, Agency Collateralized
Mortgage Obligations, and Agency Pass-Through Mortgage Backed Securities. Number of
Venues is the number of different trading venues in each category and the number of MPIDs for
bilateral transactions. Volume is the average daily dollar volume in par value (in millions of
dollars) over the 6-month period, from April 1, 2021, to September 30, 2021. Market Share (%)
is the measure of the dollar volume as a percent of the total dollar volume. The volume of ATSs
and non-ATS interdealer brokers are broken out by Customer trades and Dealer trades within
each group.e
 Data is based on the regulatory version of TRACE for Agency Securities from
April 1, 2021, to September 30, 2021. Bilateral trades are a catchall classification that may
include trades conducted via bilateral negotiation, as well as trades conducted electronically via
platforms not registered with FINRA as an ATS. Bilateral trades may include trades conducted
on Communication Protocol Systems.
a The percentage to the nearest non-zero is 0.0003%.
b The percentage to the nearest non-zero is 0.00007%.
c The percentage to the nearest non-zero is 0.001%.
d See supra notes b and c of Table VIII.1 e We identify ATS trades and non-ATS interdealer broker trades using MPID in the regulatory version of TRACE
for Agency Securities. The regulatory version of TRACE for Agency Securities includes an identifier for
customer and interdealer trades.
ii. Regulatory Environment for Government Securities ATSs
The regulatory environment for Government Securities ATSs varies according to whether
the ATS is a Current Government Securities ATS or a Currently Exempted Government
Securities ATS, and whether the ATS is operated by a registered broker-dealer. Differences in
reporting requirements can lead to an uneven competitive landscape for Government Securities
366
ATSs and leave room for regulatory arbitrage.823 In addition, current regulation for Government
Securities ATSs does not require public disclosure about operations, fair access, or robust
systems.
Much of the difference in regulatory treatment among Government Securities ATSs
comes from the fact that Current Government Securities ATSs must comply with Regulation
ATS, while Currently Exempted Government Securities ATSs do not. For example, Currently
Exempted Government Securities ATSs are not required to file Form ATS with the Commission,
while ATSs that trade U.S. Government securities as well as non-government securities, such as
corporate or municipal securities, must have filed Form ATS as a confidential filing with the
Commission when they began operations, and will incur the cost to do so again if there is a
material change in operations.824
Current Government Securities ATSs are also required to confidentially report their
transaction dollar volume in government securities to the Commission on a quarterly basis via
Form ATS-R within 30 days after the end of each calendar quarter. Currently Exempted
Government Securities ATSs are not subject to this requirement.
Unlike Current Government Securities ATSs, Currently Exempted Government
Securities ATSs are not required to establish written safeguards and written procedures to protect
subscribers’ confidential trading information.825 To the extent that a Currently Exempted

823 One commenter stated that the lack of a consistent regulatory framework for entities that
undertake similar activities leads to opportunities for arbitrage and may result in market
fragmentation, which in turn may cause reduced market liquidity. See Tradeweb Letter
at 9.
824 The Commission may use this information in monitoring, examinations and enforcement.
825 These requirements come from Rule 301(b)(10) of Regulation ATS. Current
Government Securities ATSs are currently subject to these rules. See supra Section
II.D.2.
367
Government Securities ATS does not have these procedures, or has them but the procedures are
not adequate,826 a subscriber’s confidential trading information might be at risk of unauthorized
disclosure or subject to potential misuse.
Current Government Securities ATSs must also comply with certain additional
requirements, such as recordkeeping requirements pursuant to Rule 301(b)(8). These include
requirements to make and keep certain records for an audit trail of trading activity, such as timesequenced order information, as well as information about current subscribers and summaries of
trading activity. The requirement to keep such records may impose compliance costs on Current
Government Securities ATSs to which Currently Exempted Government Securities ATSs are not
subjected. To the extent that Currently Exempted Government Securities ATSs do not
voluntarily maintain records similar to those required by Rule 301(b)(8), detection and
investigation of potential market irregularities may be inhibited.
A further disparity exists in the case of the estimated one bank-operated Currently
Exempted Government Securities ATS. All other Currently Exempted Government Securities
ATSs and all Current Government Securities ATSs are registered broker-dealers that incur the
costs of registering with the Commission as well as the costs of SRO membership, and face
operational regulatory reporting requirements.827 In contrast, the estimated one bank-operated

826 Currently Exempted Government Securities ATSs are not required to file their written
safeguards and written procedures with the Commission. Therefore, absent an
examination by the Commission staff, the Commission is not able to determine which
Currently Exempted Government Securities ATSs currently have adequate, written
safeguards and written procedures to protect subscribers’ confidential trading
information. At the same time, based on the experience of the Commission, the
Commission believes that some Currently Exempted Government Securities ATSs
currently have, and maintain in writing, safeguards and procedures to protect subscribers’
confidential trading information, as well as the oversight procedures to ensure such
safeguards and procedures are followed.
827 See FINRA Letter at 2-3, stating that nearly all Government Securities ATSs currently
are FINRA members
368
Currently Exempted Government Securities ATS is not required to register as a broker-dealer
with the Commission and thus, does not have to file Form BD with the Commission or be subject
to FINRA rules.
The estimated one bank-operated Currently Exempted Government Securities ATS does
not report government securities transactions to TRACE. All transactions in government
securities that include at least one FINRA member are required to be reported to TRACE within
15 minutes of the time of execution.828 Trades on ATSs operated by FINRA members may be
required to be reported to TRACE, by either the ATS, counterparties to the trade, or both,
depending on whether the counterparties are FINRA members and whether the ATS holds itself
out as a party to the trade.829

828 See supra note 228 and corresponding text discussing TRACE reporting requirements for
U.S. Government securities.
829 FINRA Rule 6731 exempts certain ATSs from TRACE reporting requirements as long as
all of the following conditions are met: all trades are between ATS subscribers that are
both FINRA members; the ATS demonstrates that member subscribers are fully disclosed
to one another at all times, the system does not permit automatic execution and a member
must take affirmative steps to agree to a trade, the trade does not pass through any ATS
account and the ATS does not hold itself out as a party to the trade; and the ATS does not
exchange TRACE-Eligible Securities or funds on behalf of its subscribers, take either
side of the trade for clearing or settlement purposes, or in any other way insert itself into
the trade; the ATS and the member subscribers acknowledge and agree in writing that the
ATS shall not be deemed a party to the trade for purposes of trade reporting and that
trades shall be reported by each party to the transaction; and the ATS agrees to provide to
FINRA on a monthly basis data relating to the volume of trades by security executed by
the ATS's member subscribers using the ATS's system. Furthermore, Rule 6732 exempts
certain transactions on ATS from TRACE reporting requirements as long as all of the
following conditions are met: the trade is between FINRA members; the trade does not
pass through any ATS account, and the ATS does not exchange TRACE-Eligible
Securities or funds on behalf of the subscribers, take either side of the trade for clearing
or settlement purposes, or in any other way insert itself into the trade; the ATS agrees to
provide to FINRA on a monthly basis data relating to each exempted trade occurring on
the ATS's system pursuant to this Rule 6732; the ATS remits to FINRA a transaction
reporting fee for each exempted sell transaction occurring on the ATS; and the ATS has
entered into a written agreement with each party to the transaction that such trade must be
reported by such party. See also FINRA Letter at 6-7, stating that a fixed income ATS is
369
Neither Current Government Securities ATSs nor Currently Exempted Government
Securities ATSs are required to make disclosures on public forms, and this might lead to
information asymmetries amongst different subscribers. For example, certain Government
Securities ATSs might make voluntary disclosures regarding their operations as a signal of
quality to some customers, 830 without disclosing the same information to other customers or
market participants generally. As a result, some subscribers have limited information which may
affect their trading decisions.
There is no legal mechanism to prevent Government Securities ATSs from unreasonably
denying or limiting subscribers’ access, because the Fair Access Rule does not currently apply to
any ATS that trades government securities.831 When a Government Securities ATS has a
significant share of trading volume in government securities, unfairly discriminatory actions
might hurt investors because viable alternatives to trading on such a high-volume system might
be limited. To the extent this happens, it results in higher trading costs and a reduced efficiency
with which such excluded participants achieve trading objectives, which may also lead to
concentration in the market for dealers in government securities.
832 Furthermore, market forces
alone might not be sufficient to prevent a Government Securities ATS from unreasonably
denying access to some market participants.833

a “party to a transaction” in a TRACE-eligible security occurring through its system and
has TRACE transaction reporting obligations, unless an exception or exemption applies.
830 For example, the ATS may disclose order execution statistics to some customers.
831 See supra Section II.D.2, discussing the Fair Access Rule requirements.
832 One commenter stated that registered investment companies generally are not able to
directly access liquidity on most Treasury interdealer platforms. See ICI Letter at 4.
833 See MFA Letter at 3, stating that currently there is no mechanism to prevent Government
Securities ATSs from unreasonably denying or limiting subscribers’ access to an ATS
that is a significant market for government securities.
370
The Commission preliminarily believes that Government Securities ATSs may not fully
internalize the cost of the externalities associated with not having robust, resilient systems, as
would be required by the provisions of Regulation SCI and Rule 301(b)(6) of Regulation ATS.
Without appropriate safeguards in place for Government Securities ATSs, technological
vulnerabilities continue to exist and could lead to the potential for costly failures, disruptions,
delays, intrusions, and the reduction in systems up-time,834 which could harm the price discovery
process and price efficiency of government securities. Systems issues pose significant negative
externalities on the market, in that if a trading system of a Government Securities ATS with
significant trading volume fails, this failure will not only force the ATS to forgo revenue but
might also diminish trading in government securities during the disruption. This would increase
the trading costs of market participants that have optimized their trading strategy under the
assumption that all Government Securities ATSs with significant volume are fully operational,
and might harm the price discovery process and liquidity flows for government securities.835 In
addition, price discovery in securities that use government security transaction prices as risk-free
rate benchmarks might also be harmed.836

834 Systems up-time is a measure of the time that a computer system is running and
available.
835 On January 11, 2019, the largest trading platform in on-the-run U.S. Treasury Securities,
experienced a system outage approximately from 2pm to 3:30pm ET. While the outage
resulted in a modest reduction in market volume, had it occurred at a time other than late
on a Friday afternoon when trading activity is normally already low, the outage could
have resulted in more adverse consequences on the overall market. See also Elizabeth
Stanton, Nick Baker, & Matthew Leising, Treasuries Hit by One-Hour Outage on Biggest
Electronic Platform, BLOOMBERG, January 13, 2019,
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2019-01-11/brokertec-inter-dealer-treasurybroker-suffers-outage.
836 As noted in the October 15 Staff Report, price discovery is especially important in the
secondary market for on-the-run U.S. Treasury Securities because the transaction prices
are used as risk-free rate benchmarks to price other securities transactions.
371
One commenter on the 2020 Proposal stated that “many Government Securities ATSs
may already align with industry standards that achieve many of the same goals of Regulations
SCI, although in slightly different manner.”837 While the Commission recognizes that
Government Securities ATSs have some incentives to maintain robust systems to remain
competitive and thereby reduce systems issues, the Commission believes that market forces
alone may not be sufficient to significantly reduce systems issues, because some of the impact of
these systems issues represent an externality to the Government Securities ATS.
838
A comment letter received in response to the Treasury Request for Information stated that
many Government Securities ATSs adopted system testing and control procedures that followed
the recommended best practices of the Treasury Market Practices Group.839 However, these best
practices are meant only as useful operational guideposts rather than binding rules, and each
trading venue can choose if it wants to comply and how to comply, which might provide weak
only incentives to internalize the externality costs associated with system failures.
The Commission is aware of 1 Government Securities ATS operated by a broker-dealer
that also operates an NMS Stock ATS that is an SCI entity and so may already comply with
much of Regulation SCI.

837 See BrokerTec Letter at 6.
838 A commenter on the 2020 stated “…we believe that market forces alone may be
insufficient to significantly reduce systems issues in the market for trading and execution
services in government securities.” See MFA Letter at 6.
839 See Letter from Mike Zolik, Nate Kalich, and Larry Magargal, Ronin Capital LLC, to
David R. Pearl, Office of the Executive Secretary, U.S. Department of the Treasury,
dated March 19, 2016, at 31-33, available at
https://www.treasurydirect.gov/instit/statreg/gsareg/RoninCapital.pdf. See also
BrokerTec Letter at 6. The Treasury Market Practices Group promotes a robust control
environment for government securities trading, using internal controls and risk
management. See Treasury Market Practices Group, Best Practices For Treasury,
Agency Debt, and Agency Mortgage-Backed Securities Markets (July 2019), available at
https://www.newyorkfed.org/medialibrary/Microsites/tmpg/files/TMPG_BestPractices_0
71119.pdf.
372
b. Communication Protocol Systems in the Market for Government
Securities
Communication Protocol Systems play a significant role in the market for government
securities. The Commission estimates that there are 3 Communication Protocol Systems
operating in the market for government securities that may meet the definition of exchange under
the proposed changes to Exchange Act Rule 3b-16. The Commission understands that these
systems are a significant component of the dealer-to-customer segment of the U.S. Treasury
market and account for approximately 30 to 40 percent of the total trading volume in U.S.
Treasuries.
840 One of the roles of such systems is to provide a means to communicate trading
interest in the dealer-to-customer market.841
The Commission understands that investors who wish to transact in government
securities generally do so with a dealer on a principal basis. Communication Protocol Systems
typically facilitate the first step in a principal trade, namely trading between the dealer and
customer. In this capacity, the systems provide a way for customers to obtain quotes from
dealers and to select a dealer to fill their order, in addition to the other reasons for using a
Communication Protocol System described in Section VIII.B.1. The Commission understands
that dealers and PTFs may also use Communication Protocol Systems to demand liquidity in
government securities, a decision which may be motivated by the possibility of executing block
trades with less information leakage compared to ATSs.
842

840 See infra Section VIII.B.2.d, Table VIII.5. Some part of the stream axes volume
accounted for in that table may be ATS volume.
841 As described in Section III.A, the secondary market for U.S. Treasury Securities is
generally bifurcated between the dealer-to-customer market and the interdealer market.
See also Bloomberg Letter at 5, referencing that the bifurcating of the market is due to
some extent to structural issues in clearing.
842 See supra Section VIII.B.1.a, discussing information leakage and RFQs.
373
The Commission understands that dealer respondents on RFQ systems in the market for
government securities typically provide a continuous stream of indicative, non-firm quotes that
are aggregated into a single quote and made available to all participants who may wish to initiate
an RFQ on the trading system. Such quotes may also be disseminated over the Internet to the
general public. These indicative quote streams are an important service on RFQ systems for at
least two reasons. First, they are a source of price information in government securities, and the
Commission understands that some market data vendors may rely exclusively on such quote
streams for the information they provide on, for example, the Treasury market. In providing
such transparency in the Treasury market, these quote streams may be used as a risk-free rate
benchmark, and to help price other financial instruments. Second, the quote streams give
potential participants in the RFQ a sense of what quotes they would receive in response to a
request without having to make a request, which helps these market participants get a sense of
the market without revealing trading interest.
Communication Protocol Systems do not meet the current definition of an exchange and
thus are not subject to regulation either as an exchange or an ATS. This means they face a
regulatory regime similar to that of Currently Exempted Government Securities ATSs as
described in Section VIII.B.1.ii above. Furthermore, depending on how much of a role the
Communication Protocol System takes in facilitating the transaction (e.g., acting as a
counterparty to each side of the trade), and whether the Communication Protocol System
operator and/or parties to the transaction are FINRA members, transactions taking place through
the Communication Protocol System may not be reported to TRACE at all.
The Commission estimates that a single Communication Protocol System trading in
government securities is not currently operated by a registered broker-dealer. This system does
not currently incur the costs of registering with the Commission as well as the costs of SRO
membership, and is not subject to FINRA operational regulatory reporting requirements.
374
c. Other Methods of Trading in U.S. Government Securities
Market participants may also transact in government securities via bilateral voice trading.
As the Commission understands, a market participant wishing to make a purchase or sale of
government securities would phone a potential counterparty, typically a dealer in government
securities, to inquire about specific securities. The parties would then negotiate on price and
size. If there were agreement, the parties would execute a trade. If not, the liquidity demander
could repeat this process to find a more suitable counterparty. The Commission understands that
a liquidity demander would typically contact more than one dealer, in order to compare quotes.
Bilateral voice trading can be attractive to traders in government securities because this
method of trading allows for flexibility, minimizes information leakage relative to other trading
protocols, and may be conducive to maintaining relationships. The lack of information leakage
may cause bilateral voice trading to be a useful method for traders seeking to execute large block
trades of government securities.
d. Competition for U.S. Government Securities Trading Services
Government securities are traded through a diverse set of methods, including ATSs,
Communication Protocol Systems, and bilateral negotiation methods such as voice trading. The
Commission preliminarily believes that each type of trading method may be more prevalent in
separate segments of the government securities market.
Limit Order Book RFQ Stream Axesa Voice
26.3 29.9 10.4 33.4
Table VIII.5: U.S. Treasury Securities Trading Protocol Market Share
This table reports volume share by trading protocol type in the market for U.S. Treasury Securities.
Market Share (%) is the measure of the dollar volume as a percent of total dollar volume. Data is
based on Coalition Greenwich’s Greenwich MarketView data from January 2021 through September
2021. Voice protocol is calculated as the remainder of volume after accounting for Limit Order Book,
RFQ, and Stream Axes reported directly to Coalition Greenwich from aggregated FINRA TRACE
volume.
a Coalition Greenwich’s Greenwich MarketView refers to this data value as “Stream/Click-to-Engage.”
375
ATSs and Communication Protocol Systems compete with one another to attract order
flow. Table VIII.5 shows the percentage of TRACE-reported Treasury Securities transactions
that are completed using different trading protocols, and shows that the use of ATSs and
Communication Protocol Systems to transact in Treasury Securities are roughly evenly matched
in terms of volume.843 LOB volume represents ATS trades, and the Commission understands
that some amount of stream axes volume may also be from ATSs. The remaining portion of
stream axes and the RFQ volume represent Communication Protocol Systems in this market.
The Commission understands that the primary customers of ATSs tend to be dealers and
PTFs. The Commission understands that many of the PTFs trading on Government Securities
ATSs utilize latency-sensitive trading strategies.844 Such strategies would likely not be possible
to implement when trading on a Communication Protocol System, or via bilateral voice trading.
This gives ATSs an advantage in attracting such order flow. Because orders on LOB ATSs are
generally displayed to all participants on the ATS, ATSs with LOBs may have more price
competition among liquidity providers than alternatives. Also, ATSs, unlike non-ATS trading
services, can offer certain additional execution protocols, such as crossing mechanisms and
auctions, which generally meet the current definition of an exchange.

843 One commenter pointed out that, at around 30 percent, U.S. Treasury market ATS market
share is at a similar level that NMS equities ATS market share was in 1999 when
Regulation ATS was adopted. The commenter stated that the exemption of Treasury
securities from Regulation ATS gave Treasury market structure time to develop, but the
market has now matured to a point where the exemption should be reconsidered. See
Bloomberg Letter at 21.
844 See supra Section VIII.B.2.a.i for additional discussion on the role of PTFs in the
Treasury market.
376
Government Securities ATSs compete on fees, trading features, and by attracting
liquidity to their system. As described above in Section VIII.B.2.a, a substantial amount of order
flow in government securities is concentrated on the largest Government Securities ATS.845
The primary customers of Communication Protocol Systems are those market
participants in the dealer-to-customer market. Customers seeking to trade government securities
may find the sophistication and infrastructure required to trade on ATSs to not be cost-effective
relative to the type and quantity of trading they wish to undertake. This may give the
Communication Protocol Systems an advantage in attracting such traders. In addition,
Communication Protocol Systems offer features that ATSs might not, such as the ability to trade
on a fully disclosed, non-anonymous basis; or the ability to connect trading in Treasuries to
related trades in corporate bonds.846
Communication Protocol Systems compete with each other through the fees they charge,
and through innovation and improvement in the type and quality of the protocols they offer. The
Commission preliminarily believes that such competition among Communication Protocol
Systems may explain the proliferation of different types of protocols.
Both ATSs and Communication Protocol Systems compete against the option of
transacting through bilateral voice trading. Such methods of trading in government securities
have been common historically and continue to be used today. As described above in Section
VIII.B.2.c, these methods of trading provide traders with the ability to customize transactions on
the basis of a relationship between the two parties. At the same time, these trades may be more

845 See supra Section VIII.B.2.a.i
846 See supra Sections VIII.B.1 and VIII.B.2.b for additional details on the nature of
Communication Protocol Systems. See infra Section VIII.B.3.b for additional details on
the trading of corporate bonds on Communication Protocol Systems.
377
cumbersome and may suffer from a lack of price competition relative to Communication
Protocol Systems and ATSs.
The Commission preliminarily believes that the differences in regulatory regimes among
ATSs and between ATSs and Communication Protocol Systems847 can lead to an uneven
competitive landscape and adversely impact the potential for robust competition in the market
for government securities.848
The Commission believes that the current lack of public disclosure about the operations
and potential conflicts of interest of Government Securities ATSs and Communication Protocol
Systems that currently trade government securities might hinder competition among these ATSs
and between Government Securities ATSs and Communication Protocol Systems in the market
for government securities. Competition among Government Securities ATSs and between
Government Securities ATSs and non-ATS trading systems would affect the trading costs of
government securities market participants, including dealers, PTFs, hedge funds, and
institutional investors. Their trading costs include bid-ask spreads,849 search costs in the

847 See supra Section VIII.B.2.a.ii, discussing the regulatory regime for Government
Securities ATSs and Section VIIIB.2.b, discussing the regulatory regime for
Communication Protocol Systems.
848 See ICE Bonds Letter II at 2, stating that the significant regulatory burdens on fixed
income ATSs puts them at a competitive disadvantage to non-ATS trading systems that
are not subject to these same regulatory obligations. See also ICE Bonds Letter II at 5,
stating that market participants are harmed when electronic trading systems that perform
market place functions in fixed income securities are not subject to the same
requirements as a fixed income ATSs, and that if the regulatory obligations of operating a
fixed income ATS become too burdensome or impair the ability of fixed income ATSs to
compete, it may discourage the expansion of ATSs and potentially encourage operators
of fixed income ATSs to restructure their operations to avoid being characterized as an
ATS.
849 The estimated average daily relative quoted spread for interdealer transactions for on-therun U.S. Treasury Securities is small, approximately 0.8 bps for 2-year Treasury
Securities and 2.4 bps for 10-year Treasury Securities. The estimated average daily
relative quoted spread for interdealer transactions for off-the-run U.S. Treasury
Securities, approximately 1.7 bps for 2-year Treasury Securities and 5.4 bps for 10-year
378
selection of trading venues and counterparties, and trading venue fees. When deciding which
trading system most suits their trading objectives, market participants consider various
operational facets of the system, such as order handling, order types, order segmentation, trading
functionalities, and any potential conflicts of interest that might arise from the operator of the
trading service or its affiliates. Trading system fees would also be a factor for market
participants in deciding between trading systems.
3. Current State of Corporate Debt Market
Although smaller than the market for government securities, the market for corporate
debt securities (“corporate bonds”) represents a significant part of the fixed income market. In
September 2021, the average daily dollar volume of corporate bond trading was $26.4 billion,
including $19.8 billion in investment-grade bonds and $6.5 billion in high-yield bonds.850 One
commenter stated that levels of trading in corporate debt have typically been lower than in other
fixed income markets, such as government securities: while corporate bonds made up 20 percent

Treasury Securities, is larger compared to that of on-the-run Treasury Securities. Spreads
have narrowed in the past couple of years with a change to a smaller minimum trading
increment of 1/8 of 1/32 of $1. The average daily relative quoted spread is computed as
the daily average of the difference between the intraday offer and bid prices divided by
the corresponding price mid-quote. See also Paolo Pasquariello & Clara Vega, The Onthe-Run Liquidity Phenomenon, 92 J. FIN. ECON. 1 (2009); Tobias Adria, Michael
Fleming, & Or Shachar, Market Liquidity after the Financial Crisis (June, 28, 2017),
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, Liberty Street Economics, available at
https://libertystreeteconomics.newyorkfed.org/2017/06/market-liquidity-after-thefinancial-crisis.html.
850 See
http://finramarkets.morningstar.com/BondCenter/TRACEMarketAggregateStats.jsp?bon
dType=C. While there are many types of corporate bonds, most tend to fall within two
categories: investment-grade bonds and high-yield bonds (also commonly referred to as
“non-investment-grade” or “junk” bonds). High-yield bonds tend to have higher yields
than both government securities and investment-grade bonds, but are also subject to a
higher degree of risk.
379
of new issuances in Q4 2020, they only made up 4.4 percent of fixed income market trading.851
However, the commenter pointed out that the absolute dollar volume of corporate bond trading
volume is still very significant, as is the overall size of the market: as of January 2021, the
corporate bond market is valued at $9.3 trillion in investment-grade and $2.4 trillion in highyield debt outstanding.852 Estimates put the annualized growth rate of the corporate bond market
at 5.2 percent between 2008 and 2019, a growth rate second only to that of government securities
within the fixed income space.853
Trading in corporate bonds tends to be more illiquid than trading in government
securities, with liquidity often concentrated in the largest and most recently issued bonds.854 One
commenter referenced that only 18 percent of corporate bonds trade each day, and only 8 percent
have more than five trades on any given day.855 Several commenters stated that this is due in
part to the highly idiosyncratic nature of corporate bond characteristics,
856 which can differ along

851 See Healthy Markets Letter at 8.
852 See id.
853 See https://vegaeconomics.com/trends-in-the-us-corporate-bond-market-since-thefinancial-crisis.
854 See A Financial System That Creates Economic Opportunities: Capital Markets, U.S.
Department of the Treasury, October 2017, available at https://www.treasury.gov/presscenter/press-releases/documents/a-financial-system-capital-markets-final-final.pdf
(“Treasury Report”) at 85.
855 See Bloomberg Letter at 9, citing Financial Times at
https://www.ft.com/content/3175772a-7ea0-3b61-ae53-063459e78c42. Another
commenter gave a similar number, estimating that only 17 percent of the more than
43,000 unique U.S. investment-grade bonds traded on any given day in 2020. See
MarketAxess Letter at 3.
856 See Bloomberg Letter at 20, mentioning that the corporate bond market is non-standard
and highlighting the importance of market-making, and MarketAxess Letter at 3, stating
that liquidity is lower for corporate bonds than for equities because, while there are only a
few thousand common stocks, there are hundreds of thousands of CUSIPs for corporate
and municipal bonds. See also ICI Letter at 8, stating that corporate bond liquidity varies
dramatically across bonds due to their diverse nature, and that liquidity shifts can be
exacerbated during times of market stress.
380
many different dimensions, including issuer, tenor, coupon rate, and covenants.857 One
commenter stated that, compared to the equity market, the large number of individual CUSIPs in
the corporate debt market has resulted in a meaningful subset of corporate bonds without market
makers, which in turn lowers the liquidity of these bonds.858
Corporate bondholders, who are mainly institutional investors such as mutual funds,
pension funds, insurance companies, and banks,
859 have traditionally facilitated their trades
through broker-dealers on a principal basis.
860 The past decade has seen an increasing shift
towards trading arrangements in which dealers quickly arrange offsetting trades when
intermediating between buyers and sellers so as to avoid taking on significant inventory risk for
extended periods of time. A more recent trend has seen a rise in the direct participation of
institutional investors as corporate bond liquidity providers: in April 2020, one corporate bond
RFQ platform reported a record 900 firms providing liquidity, including 700 asset managers.861
a. ATSs in the Market for Corporate Debt
In September 2021, corporate bond trading on ATSs accounted for 7.7 percent of total
TRACE-reported corporate bond trading volume in terms of dollar volume.
862 Currently, the

857 See https://fredblog.stlouisfed.org/2015/10/illiquidity-in-the-bond-market/.
858 See MarketAxess Letter at 3.
859 One commenter stated that registered investment companies (“funds”) held 21 percent of
bonds issued by both U.S. corporate issuers and foreign bonds held by U.S. residents as
of year-end 2019. See ICI Letter at 1-2.
860 See, e.g., https://www.marketwatch.com/story/u-s-corporate-debt-soars-to-record-10-5-
trillion-11598921886. (Retrieved from Factiva database); O'Hara, M., & Zhou, X. A.
(2021). Anatomy of a liquidity crisis: Corporate bonds in the COVID-19 crisis. Journal of
Financial Economics.
861 See McDowell, Hayley. (2020, April 30). “MarketAxess reveals record number of buyside acted as liquidity providers in COVID-19 crisis,” THETRADE, available at
https://www.thetradenews.com/marketaxess-reveals-record-buy-side-acted-liquidityproviders-covid-19-crisis/.
862 See TRACE Monthly Volume Files, available at https://www.finra.org/finra-data/browsecatalog/trace-volume-reports/trace-monthly-volume-files. One commenter referenced
381
Commission understands that there are 12 ATSs with a Form ATS on file trading corporate
bonds.863 Protocols in corporate bond ATSs include limit order books (LOBs), displayed and
non-displayed venues, and auctions, among others. According to Table VIII.6, the most
commonly reported protocol used for trading corporate bonds via ATSs is an auction. Typically,
auctions operate by periodically crossing at prices that maximizes the amount of buy and sell
trading interest that can be executing at that price.
Corporate bond ATSs are mostly used by dealers, who may be either using them to trade
on behalf of retail investors or to rebalance excess inventories.864 A Division of Economic Risk
and Analysis (“DERA”) white paper on corporate bond ATSs finds that large dealers (i.e., those
in the highest quartile of trading volume and number of bonds traded) are more likely to provide
corporate bond quotes on ATSs than smaller dealers.865

similar numbers for 2020, stating that corporate bond trades (including both investmentgrade and high-yield bonds) on all ATSs represented 6.4 percent of the trade volume and
18.7 percent of the trade count reported to TRACE. See MarketAxess Letter at 1.
863 In addition, a small percentage of corporate bonds are exchange-traded on trading
systems such as NYSE Bonds and the Nasdaq Bond Exchange. See, e.g.,
https://www.nyse.com/markets/bonds and https://www.nasdaq.com/solutions/nasdaqbond-exchange. Trading volume in exchange-traded bonds was reported to be around
$19 billion as of January 2020. See Uhlfelder, Eric, (Jan. 2020), A Forgotten Investment
Worth Considering: Exchange-Traded Bonds, The Wall Street Journal, available at
https://www.wsj.com/articles/a-forgotten-investment-worth-considering-exchangetraded-bonds-11578279781. (Retrieved from Factiva database).
864 See Kozora, M., Mizrach, B., Peppe, M., Shachar, O., & Sokobin, J. S. (2020).
Alternative Trading Systems in the Corporate Bond Market. FRB of New York Staff
Report, (938).
865 See Craig, L., Kim, A., & Woo, S. W. (2020). Pre-trade Information in the Corporate
Bond Market. U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, Division of Economic and
Risk Analysis White Paper. White papers and analyses are prepared by SEC staff in the
course of rulemaking and other Commission initiatives. The U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission disclaims responsibility for any private publication or statement
of any employee or Commissioner. White papers express the authors’ views and do not
necessarily reflect those of the Commission, the Commissioners, or other members of the
staff.
382
Similar to Current Government Securities ATSs, an ATS that trades in corporate debt
securities must comply with the requirements of Regulation ATS, including registering as a
broker-dealer.
866 Also, similar to Current Government Securities ATSs, corporate bond ATSs
are not required to make public disclosures, and, as discussed above, this lack of disclosure
requirements might lead to information asymmetries amongst different subscribers.867 Further,
corporate bond ATSs with significant volume868 are required to comply with the requirements of
the Fair Access Rule.869 Moreover, ATSs that trade in corporate debt must also comply with the
Capacity, Integrity, and Security Rule if they meet certain volume thresholds.
870 The
requirements of Rule 301(b)(6), while similar, are less rigorous and less costly than the
requirements of Regulation SCI.
All transactions in corporate bonds that include at least one FINRA member are required
to be reported to TRACE within 15 minutes of the time of execution.871 Furthermore, trades on

866 See supra Section II.D.2. See also supra Section VIII.B.2.a.ii for a discussion about the
effects of these regulations and the costs to comply.
867 See supra Section VIII.B.2.b.ii for additional discussion on the effects of a lack of public
disclosure.
868 An ATS trading in corporate debt securities is subject to the Fair Access Rule if, during
at least four of the preceding six months, the ATS had five percent or more of the average
daily volume in corporate debt securities traded in the United States. See 17 CFR
242.301(b)(5)(i) and https://www.sec.gov/tm/faq-regulation-ats-fair-access-rule.
869 See supra Section II.D.2. Also, see supra Section VIII.B.2.b.ii describing the impact of
the Fair Access Rule.
870 See 17 CFR 242.301(b)(6) and supra note 157 and corresponding text. Rule 301(b)(6)
currently applies to an ATS that trades only corporate debt securities with 20 percent or
more of the average daily volume traded in the United States during at least four of the
preceding six calendar months. One commenter stated that, given current aggregate ATS
volumes, it is unlikely that any single ATS will approach 20 percent of overall corporate
debt market volume. See MarketAxess Letter at 10.
871 See FINRA Rule 6730(a)(1) requiring FINRA members to report transactions in
TRACE-Eligible Securities, which FINRA Rule 6710 defines to include corporate debt
securities. For each transaction in corporate debt securities, a FINRA member would be
required to report the CUSIP number or similar numeric identifier or FINRA symbol;
size (volume) of the transaction; price of the transaction (or elements necessary to
383
ATSs operated by FINRA members may be required to be reported to TRACE, by either the
ATS, counterparties to the trade, or both, depending on whether the counterparties are FINRA
members and whether the ATS holds itself out as a party to the trade.
872 Academic studies have
shown that TRACE reporting requirements have reduced overall trading costs in corporate bond
markets,873 but may increase the cost of trading through large dealers, who previously were able
to offer lower transaction costs due to their information advantages.874
b. Communication Protocol Systems in the Market for Corporate Debt
Communication Protocol Systems play a significant role in the market for corporate debt.
Table VIII.6, which breaks down corporate bond dollar volumes according to different trading
protocols, shows that corporate bond trading on Communication Protocol Systems (including
anonymous and disclosed RFQs, portfolio trading, and stream axes), accounted for 23.1 percent
of total corporate bond trading volume during the first half of 2021. Currently, the Commission
estimates that there are 8 Communication Protocol Systems trading corporate bonds that may
meet the definition of exchange under the proposed changes to Exchange Act Rule 3b-16.
One commenter stated that protocols such as electronic RFQs in the fixed income market
evolved from single dealer order routing and the use of the “three quote rule,” in which

calculate price); symbol indicating whether transaction is a buy or sell; date of trade
execution (“as/of” trades only); contra-party’s identifier; capacity (principal or agent);
time of execution; reporting side executing broker as “give-up” (if any); contra side
introducing broker (in case of “give-up” trade); the commission (total dollar amount), if
applicable; date of settlement; if the member is reporting a transaction that occurred on an
ATS pursuant to FINRA Rule 6732, the ATS’s separate Market Participant Identifier
(“MPID”); and trade modifiers as required. See FINRA Rule 6730(c).
872 See supra note 829 describing exemptions for ATS transaction reporting to TRACE.
873 See, e.g., Edwards, A. K., Harris, L. E., & Piwowar, M. S. (2007). Corporate bond
market transaction costs and transparency. The Journal of Finance, 62(3), 1421-1451.
874 See Bessembinder, H., Maxwell, W., & Venkataraman, K. (2006). Market transparency,
liquidity externalities, and institutional trading costs in corporate bonds. Journal of
Financial Economics, 82(2), 251-288.
384
institutional investors would seek three quotes from three dealers in order to assist them in
getting the best prices. According to the commenter, in more liquid securities, electronification
has allowed traders to better organize pre-trade data, allowing for new Communication Protocol
Systems that enable functionalities such as RFQ Lists and other multiple-security trade
messaging inquiries.875
“Portfolio trading” is a multi-security protocol that may be particularly useful for
corporate bond market participants. This protocol is similar to RFQ Lists as defined in Section
II.B.2 and discussed in Section VIII.B.1.b; however, while RFQ Lists permit users to respond
with quotes for only some of the securities listed, securities that are listed in a portfolio trading
protocol are executed for the entire portfolio at a single price with a single counterparty.876 One
industry report estimates that two to five percent of TRACE trading volume in investment-grade
bonds is executed via portfolio trading protocols.877 Furthermore, one report estimates that
portfolio trading volume increased by 159 percent between 2019 and 2021.878 The “all-or-none”
nature of portfolio trading can be especially beneficial for corporate bond market participants
who wish to trade baskets of securities that include some difficult-to-trade bonds. Specifically,
market participants may be able to receive better prices for more illiquid bonds, which may or

875 See Bloomberg Letter at 12.
876 See Husveth, Ted (2021) “Electronic Portfolio Trading Rewrites the Corporate Bond
Liquidity Playbook,” Tradeweb, available at
https://www.tradeweb.com/newsroom/media-center/insights/blog/electronic-portfoliotrading-rewrites-the-corporate-bond-liquidity-playbook/.
877 See McPartland, Kevin (2020), “All Electronic Trading is Not Created Equal,”
Greenwich Associates, available at https://www.greenwich.com/fixed-income/allelectronic-trading-not-created-equal.
878 See McPartland, Kevin (2021), “Making the Case for Portfolio Trading,” Greenwich
Associates, available at https://www.greenwich.com/fixed-income/making-caseportfolio-trading.
385
may not be balanced out by receiving worse prices on more liquid bonds.879 Additionally,
portfolio trading also tends to be faster than list trading, as there is less of a need to look at each
individual security. However, these trades tend to be complex and may be more difficult to
automate, as they often require extensive negotiations.880
While not necessarily its own protocol, one functionality that is increasingly being added
to corporate bond Communication Protocol Systems involves so-called “net spotting.” Spotting
is the practice of hedging corporate bond transactions through offsetting government security
transactions, which is useful for participants as corporate bonds – investment-grade bonds in
particular – are typically traded “on spread,” i.e., quoted relative to a benchmark government
bond yield. This practice has led to interlinkages between the corporate bond and government
securities markets.881 However, the Commission understands that manual spotting can suffer
from inefficiencies resulting from time delays in completing trades in the two markets.
“Net spotting,” which incorporates automated spotting functionalities into corporate bond
Communication Protocol Systems, may reduce these inefficiencies. This practice calculates a
net interest rate exposure resulting from a spot trade, producing a net position that can be traded

879 One commenter stated that submitting multiple securities as a portfolio of liquid and lessliquid securities enables a liquidity provider to potentially offer better prices than trading
each security individually. See Bloomberg Letter at 13.
880 See McPartland, Kevin (2020), “All Electronic Trading is Not Created Equal,”
Greenwich Associates, available at https://www.greenwich.com/fixed-income/allelectronic-trading-not-created-equal; and Husveth, Ted (2021) “Electronic Portfolio
Trading Rewrites the Corporate Bond Liquidity Playbook,” Tradeweb, available at
https://www.tradeweb.com/newsroom/media-center/insights/blog/electronic-portfoliotrading-rewrites-the-corporate-bond-liquidity-playbook/.
881 See Bloomberg Letter at 8, referencing the Joint Staff Report on the U.S. Treasury
Market on October 15, 2014, available at https://www.treasury.gov/presscenter/pressreleases/Documents/Joint_Staff_Report_Treasury_10-15-2014.pdf, stating
that markets, including the U.S. Treasury market, are connected through “automated
trading strategies that involve a nearly instantaneous response to common trading signals
or that seek to arbitrage short-lived opportunities across related interest-rate products.”
386
as a single transaction.882 Net spotting may help to reduce transaction costs of spot trades. A
growth in the popularity of this practice is also likely to increase interlinkages between trading
protocols in the corporate bond and government securities markets. One trading system operator
estimates that, only six months after adding net spotting functionality to its trading system,
almost 10 percent of the corporate bond trading volume on its trading system was using this
functionality.883
In recent years, driven in part by an increase in the popularity of corporate bond
exchange-traded funds (ETFs), there is some evidence that PTFs have begun to enter the
corporate bond market.
884 One factor that may correlate with the entry of these firms is the
ability to use portfolio trading protocols to more efficiently trade in the bonds underlying
corporate bond ETFs.885 Therefore, unlike in the market for government securities, in which
PTFs prefer to trade on Government Securities ATSs, PTFs may have a more active presence on
corporate bond Communication Protocol Systems than on corporate bond ATSs.
886
Corporate bond Communication Protocol Systems do not meet the current definition of
an exchange and thus are not subject to exchange registration or the requirements of Regulation

882 See “Net Spotting: Reducing Trading Costs for U.S. Corporate Bonds,” (2021),
Tradeweb, available at https://www.tradeweb.com/newsroom/mediacenter/insights/commentary/net-spotting-reducing-trading-costs-for-u.s.-corporatebonds/.
883 See id.
884 See https://www.greenwich.com/blog/what%E2%80%99s-next-high-frequency-traders,
which mentions that one PTF has begun to trade using corporate bond RFQs.
885 See, e.g., Rennison, Joe, Armstrong, Robert, and Wigglesworth, Robin, January 22, 2020,
“The new kings of the bond market,” Financial Times, available at
https://www.ft.com/content/9d6e520e-3ba8-11ea-b232-000f4477fbca.
886 See supra Section VIII.B.2.b for a discussion of PTFs’ role in government securities
ATSs.
387
ATS, such as requirements for robust systems.887 The Commission estimates that there are
currently 2 Communication Protocol Systems with sufficient corporate bond trading volume
such that they would otherwise be over the threshold for the Capacity, Integrity, and Security
Rule 301(b)(6).888 Several commenters stated that the resiliency of the fixed income market
during the COVID crisis showed that the current structure of the fixed income market, and of the
electronic trading market in particular, is already resilient and robust.889
The Commission estimates that 6 Communication Protocol Systems for corporate bonds
are not currently operated by registered broker-dealers. These systems do not currently incur the
costs of registering with the Commission as well as the costs of SRO membership, and are not
subject to FINRA operational regulatory reporting requirements.890

887 See supra Section VIII.B.2.b for discussion of the effects of not being subject to such
regulations. One commenter stated that, given the lack of a central clearing party for
corporate and municipal bond trades, each participant has the discretion over which other
participants they wish to extend credit to and trade; therefore, fair access to a corporate
bond Communication Protocol System may not have the same meaning given to it in the
equity ATS context as the system does not have the ability to ensure that all participant
have the same access to liquidity. See MarketAxess Letter at 10. Another commenter
stated that Communication Protocol Systems such as RFQs do not pose the same
technological risks as, e.g., fully automated central limit order books (CLOBs) because
trading is slower, there are fewer algorithms that may malfunction, and, if RFQ systems
are unavailable, parties can continue to negotiate and execute transactions bilaterally
away from the trading system. See Tradeweb Letter at 6.
888 See supra notes 157 and 870. One commenter stated that, other than Rule
301(b)(6)(ii)(F) and (G), it expects that nearly all existing platforms already meet or are
trying to meet the requirements of Rule 301(b)(6). See MarketAxess Letter at 11.
Another commenter that runs a fixed-income Communication Protocol System stated that
it invested in proper contingency planning, disaster recovery, robustness, and resiliency
to ensure there is no disruption in service. See FlexTrade Systems Letter at 3.
889 See, e.g., Bloomberg Letter at 18 and 23 and MarketAxess Letter at 12.
890 One commenter stated that, even if Communication Protocol System providers do not
meet the standard of brokerage activity, since registered broker-dealers are using these
trading systems, they are supervised under FINRA standards for brokers relying on
outsourced technology. The commenter states that these systems are also monitored by
broker-dealer, who are incentivized to do so. See Bloomberg Letter at 30-31.
388
A corporate bond transaction on a Communication Protocol System is reported to
TRACE if at least one party to the transaction is a FINRA member, and/or if the Communication
Protocol System itself is a member of FINRA.891 Depending on how much of a role the
Communication Protocol System takes in facilitating the transaction (e.g., acting as a
counterparty to each side of the trade), and whether the Communication Protocol System
operator and/or parties to the transaction are FINRA members, transactions taking place through
the Communication Protocol System may not be reported to TRACE at all.
892
c. Other Methods of Trading in the Market for Corporate Debt Securities
While the electronic trading of corporate bonds through ATSs and Communication
Protocol Systems has grown over time,893 traditionally corporate bonds trading has taken place
bilaterally through either dealer-to-dealer or dealer-to-customer negotiations, often using
telephone calls. There is evidence that such manual transactions methods remain an important
part of the corporate bond market: Table VIII.6 shows that 71.4 percent of trading in corporate
bonds was facilitated via bilateral voice trading during the first half of 2021.
Transactions in corporate bonds that do not take place on electronic platforms will be
reported to TRACE if at least one party to the trade is a member of FINRA.894

891 One commenter pointed out that FINRA has recently proposed changes to TRACE
reporting of portfolio trades. See Bloomberg Letter at 14, citing FINRA request for
comment, Regulatory Notice 20-24, September 15, 2020, available at
https://www.finra.org/sites/default/files/2020-07/Regulatory-Notice-20-24.pdf.
892 See FINRA Rule 6730(a)(1) requiring FINRA members to report transactions in
TRACE-Eligible Securities. See also supra note 228 and https://www.finra.org/rulesguidance/notices/14-53.
893 One commenter stated that approximately 32 percent of investment-grade and 23 percent
of high-yield corporate bond daily dollar volumes are executed electronically. See BDA
Letter at 1.
894 See FINRA Rule 6730(a)(1) requiring FINRA members to report transactions in
TRACE-Eligible Securities. See also supra note 228 and https://www.finra.org/rulesguidance/notices/14-53 and https://www.finra.org/filing-reporting/market-transparencyreporting/trace/faq/reporting-corporate-and-agencies-debt.
389
d. Competition for Corporate Debt Securities Trading Services
The trading of corporate debt securities takes place through a variety of different
methods, including ATSs, Communication Protocol Systems, and informal bilateral trading
methods such as voice trading. These different methods compete with each other for customers,
and may appeal to different segments of the corporate market depending on that segment’s
preferences and trading needs. Trading systems within the ATS and Communication Protocol
System spaces also compete with one another on the basis of fees, trading features, and their
ability to attract liquidity.
One commenter stated that the choice of trading method is driven largely by liquidity
considerations, with less liquid securities trading via manual protocols such as voice trading,
more liquid securities using protocols such as RFQs, and the most liquid securities trading
electronically on ATSs using protocols such as LOBs and call auctions.895 Other commenters
stated that the majority of corporate bonds are not liquid enough to support order book trading,896
which may be one reason why there is not much corporate bond trading volume in ATSs as
compared to Communication Protocol Systems, and why there is less ATS trading in corporate
bonds as compared to other securities, such as government securities. As discussed in Section
VIII.B.1, customers who want to trade electronically but are concerned about information
leakage may be more likely to use Communication Protocol Systems, particularly RFQs, as
opposed to ATSs. One study finds that corporate bond ATSs may be most utilized for smaller
transactions in investment-grade bonds, which are less vulnerable to information asymmetry, and

895 See Bloomberg Letter, Figure 2. See also Bloomberg Letter at 14. See also MarketAxess
Letter at 2, stating that institutional investors in credit markets prefer RFQs because they
have found that liquidity on demand results in the best pricing for illiquid securities.
896 See, e.g., ICI Letter at 6 and MarketAxess Letter at 3.
390
transaction in bonds that have (all else being equal) experienced a recent decrease in secondary
market trading volume, for which search costs may be high.
897
As shown in Table VIII.6, the majority (65.4 percent) of non-voice trading in corporate
bonds is conducted on RFQs. About one fourth of RFQ volume is anonymous, and, while the
majority of corporate bond trading volume on RFQs is disclosed, even participants on disclosed
RFQs often have greater flexibility over the extent to which they reveal their trading interest, for
example by limiting how many entities can view their trading interest or by refraining from
responding to a quote request.898 RFQs may also help facilitate a wider variety of functionalities
that market bond participants find particularly useful, such as portfolio trading and net spotting.
Automated executions and limited negotiation possibilities may make these functionalities more
difficult to implement on many ATSs.

897 See Kozora, M., Mizrach, B., Peppe, M., Shachar, O., & Sokobin, J. S. (2020).
Alternative Trading Systems in the Corporate Bond Market. FRB of New York Staff
Report, (938).
898 See Section VIII.B.1 for a discussion on the difference between disclosed and anonymous
RFQs.
Anonymous
RFQ
Disclosed
RFQ
Auction Limit
Order
Book
NonDisplayed
Venuea
Portfolio
Trading
Stream
Axesb
Voice
4.8 13.9 3.0 2.4 0.1 2.2 2.2 71.4
Table VIII.6: Corporate Debt Securities and Dollar Volume Share by Trading Protocol
This table reports volume share by trading protocol type in the market for corporate debt
securities. Market Share (%) is the measure of the dollar volume as a percent of total par
dollar volume. Data is based on Coalition Greenwich’s Greenwich MarketView data from
April 2021 through September 2021. Voice market share is calculated as a remainder of total
market volume after accounting for electronic protocols volume reported to Coalition
Greenwich.
a Non-displayed venues are referred to as “dark pools” in the Coalition Greenwich’s Greenwich MarketView
data.
b
 Coalition Greenwich’s Greenwich MarketView refers to this data value as “Stream/Click-to-Engage.”
391
Customers may prefer other methods such as bilateral voice trading because they wish to
transact in less liquid bonds that may require more intermediation to find a counterparty, despite
the possibility that the lack of price competition may lead to higher trading costs. One academic
study shows that the movement of corporate bond trading volume from voice trading to an RFQtype protocol system mainly reduced transaction costs for the most liquid securities.899
However, one commenter referenced that the electronification of manual trading methods, while
improving operational efficiencies, does not fundamentally change liquidity in the corporate
bond market as the same intermediaries and interactions between dealers and customers are still
involved.900
Similarly to the market for government securities, the Commission preliminarily believes
that the differences in regulatory regime between ATSs and other trading methods, including
Communication Protocol Systems such as RFQs and others, can lead to an uneven competitive
landscape and adversely impact the potential for robust competition in the market for corporate
debt securities.901 Specifically, the lack of public disclosure about the operations and potential
conflicts of interest of Communication Protocol Systems trading in corporate bonds might hinder
competition among these trading systems and between Communication Protocol Systems and
ATSs in the market for corporate bond trading services.
The fact that ATSs are subject to numerous regulatory requirements that Communication
Protocol Systems, which may perform a similar market place function, are not subject to may
place ATSs at competitive disadvantage compared to Communication Protocol Systems as a

899 See Hendershott, T., & Madhavan, A. (2015). Click or call? Auction versus search in the
over-the‐counter market. The Journal of Finance, 70(1), 419-447.
900 See Bloomberg Letter at 9 and10, citing Treasury Report.
901 See supra Section VIII.B.2.d.
392
result of the associated compliance costs and potentially higher barriers to entry. Furthermore,
one commenter stated that the different regulatory treatment of fixed income trading platforms,
with some platforms regulated as ATSs, some regulated as broker-dealers, and others not
regulated at all, leaves room for regulatory arbitrage.902
4. Current State of the Municipal Securities Market
The market for municipal securities (“municipal bonds”) represents another important
part of the fixed income market. Daily trading volumes in the municipal bond market averaged
around $12.4 billion during the 2020 calendar year.903 Average trade sizes in this market tend to
be smaller than in other fixed income markets: in September 2021, 81 percent of trades were for
$100,000 or less, reflecting the higher presence of retail investors in this market.904
The relatively large role of retail investors in the market for municipal bonds represents
one important way in which this market differs from the markets for government securities and
corporate bonds. Unlike in the markets for other fixed income securities, which are mostly
owned by institutional investors, retail investors play a prominent role in the ownership of
municipal bonds, with 45.2 percent of municipal bonds held by households and nonprofits as of
2020.905 This is largely due to the tax-exempt status of most municipal bonds, which makes
them attractive to households but less attractive to institutional investors such as pension funds,

902 See Tradeweb Letter at 6.
903 See Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board, Muni Facts, available at
https://www.msrb.org/News-and-Events/Muni-Facts.
904 See Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board, Municipal Trade Statistics, available at
https://emma.msrb.org/MunicipalTradeStatistics/ByTradeCharacteristic.aspx.
905 See “Trends in Municipal Bond Ownership” (2021), Municipal Securities Rulemaking
Board, available at https://www.msrb.org/Market-Topics/Other-Market-Topics. Note
that this source groups together households and nonprofit organizations. One
commenter pointed out the role of registered investment companies (“funds”) in this
market, stating that funds held 29 percent of municipal bonds outstanding as of year-end
2019. See ICI Letter at 1-2.
393
whose holdings are already tax-deferred or tax exempt. Municipal bond markets also tend to be
highly localized, as investors that are located in geographic proximity to an issuer are more likely
to be informed about that issuer, and tax benefits are often conferred on investors that are located
in the same state as the issuer.906
Households tend to be buy-and-hold investors, which may contribute to overall low
liquidity levels in the secondary market for municipal bonds. In 2018, less than one percent of
outstanding municipal bonds traded on a typical day, and, as in the corporate bond market,
liquidity is mostly concentrated in newly-issued bonds.907 Furthermore, there is evidence that
trading in municipal bonds has declined in recent years, as secondary market trading volume
declined by about 19 percent between 2019 and 2021.908
The market for municipal bonds is highly heterogeneous, and perhaps even more
fragmented than the market for corporate bonds. In addition to a wide diversity of bond
characteristics, including maturity, tax status, and coupon type, there are more than 50,000
different issuers in the municipal bond market, including state and local governments, towns,
cities, and counties, who as of 2020 have issued around one million unique bonds valuing $3.9
trillion.909

906 See Schultz, P. (2012). The market for new issues of municipal bonds: The roles of
transparency and limited access to retail investors. Journal of Financial Economics,
106(3), 492-512.
907 See Bessembinder, H., Spatt, C., & Venkataraman, K. (2020). A survey of the
microstructure of fixed-income markets. Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis,
55(1), 1-45.
908 See “2021 Municipal Market Trading Update,” (2021), Municipal Securities Rulemaking
Board, available at https://www.msrb.org/Market-Topics/Reports.
909 See Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board, Muni Facts, available at
https://www.msrb.org/News-and-Events/Muni-Facts. This is compared to the corporate
bond market, in which there are around 43,000 unique securities with a total market size
around $10.6 trillion. See also SIFMA letter at 9 (stating that there are 50,000 issuers of
394
The market for municipal bonds is largely an OTC market, in which investors place
orders with dealers who execute these orders by either committing their own capital (via
principal trades) or by searching the market for counterparties (via riskless principal trades or
agency trades).910 Academic research of regulatory data has shown that the interdealer market in
municipal bonds has a decentralized network structure composed of between 10 to 30 central
dealers and more than 2,000 periphery dealers.911 Further research shows that the highly
geographically localized nature of this market can limit competition between dealers.912
a. ATSs in the Market for Municipal Securities
ATSs play an increasingly important role in the municipal bond market. Between August
2016 and April 2021, an estimated 56.4 percent of municipal bond interdealer trades (26 percent
in terms of dollar volume) were conducted via ATSs.913 One commenter stated that, in 2020,
more than 1.7 million trades were reported to the MSRB as being executed on an ATS, 1.55
million of which were for $100,000 or less, showing that ATSs are of particular significance for

municipal securities and one million unique municipal bonds, compared to 30,000 unique
corporate bonds).
910 See “Analysis of Municipal Securities Pre-Trade Data from Alternative Trading
Systems” (2018), Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board, available at
https://www.sec.gov/spotlight/fixed-income-advisory-committee/msrb-staff-analysis-ofmunicipal-securities-pre-trade-data.pdf.
911 See Li, D., & Schürhoff, N. (2019). Dealer networks. The Journal of Finance, 74(1), 91-
144.
912 See Schultz, P. (2013). State taxes, limits to arbitrage and differences in municipal bond
yields across states. Unpublished working paper. University of Notre Dame.
913 See “Characteristics of Municipal Securities Trading on Alternative Trading Systems and
Broker’s Broker Platforms” (2021), Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board, available at
https://www.msrb.org/Market-Topics/Reports. See also Letter from Edward J. Sisk,
Chair, Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board, dated March 1, 2021 (“MSRB Letter”),
stating that MSRB trade data shows that ATSs were involved in 21 percent of all trades
and 55 percent of all inter-dealer trades in the municipal bond market.
395
individual investors.914 The Commission understands that there are currently 6 reporting ATSs
trading in municipal securities. One commenter stated that tremendous consolidation in the
municipal securities ATS market has occurred over time, such that there are only a few
remaining ATSs with significant trading in municipal bonds.915
As mentioned in the introduction to Section VIII.B.4 above, municipal bond owners are
typically retail investors. Retail investors are unlikely to subscribe directly to ATSs, and so
almost all trades executed on ATSs are from dealer quotes.916 A DERA white paper found that,
during a three-month period in 2014, 62 percent of trades on ATSs were between dealers and
customers, including both retail and institutional investors, while the remainder were interdealer
trades.
917 The white paper also found that large broker-dealers are more likely to post quotes on
ATSs than small broker-dealers.918
In terms of available protocols, municipal bond ATSs offer LOB-based protocols, but
many also offer protocols similar to RFQs. For the latter, quote information is only available to
a limited subset of ATS participants. This shortage of public pre-trade information may make it
more difficult for retail investors in this market, who may not have access to quote information,

914 The commenter also stated that the median size of trades reported as occurring on an
ATS was $25,000 and that, for trades of $100,000 or less, ATSs accounted for 24 percent
of all trades and 59 percent of all inter-dealer trades. See MSRB Letter at 2-3.
915 See SIFMA letter at 11.
916 See “Characteristics of Municipal Securities Trading on Alternative Trading Systems and
Broker’s Broker Platforms” (2021), Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board, available at
https://www.msrb.org/Market-Topics/Reports.
917 See Craig, L., Kim, A., & Woo, S. W. (2018). Pre-Trade Information in the Municipal
Bond Market. DERA White Paper, available at
https://www.sec.gov/files/DERA_WP_Pretrade_Information_in_the_Municipal_Bond_Market.pdf.
918 See id.
396
to ensure that they are getting the best prices; in fact, the DERA white paper found that smaller
retail-sized municipal bond trades tend to receive worse prices than large trades.
919
80 percent of all quoted municipal bonds have only a single quote offered by a single
broker at any given point in time, which corresponds to the heterogeneous nature of this
market.
920 Another reason why municipal bonds tend to be thinly quoted may be the difficulty in
shorting municipal bonds, as Internal Revenue Service (IRS) rules regulating the shorting of taxexempt securities and difficulties in locating securities to borrow makes shorting in this market
costly.921 A dealer likely will not quote in a bond unless it already owns that bond.
ATSs that trade in municipal bonds face many of the same regulatory requirements as
those that trade in corporate bonds, including complying with Regulation ATS.922 This includes
requirements that ATSs with significant volume in municipal securities markets must comply
with the Fair Access Rule923 and with the Capacity, Integrity, and Security Rule.924

919 See id. The paper defines institutional-size trades as trades greater than $100,000, and
retail-size trades as trades less than $100,000, citing Harris and Piwowar (2006), who use
trade size of $100,000 to distinguish retail- and institutional-size customer trades. See
Harris, L. E., & Piwowar, M. S. (2006). Secondary trading costs in the municipal bond
market. The Journal of Finance, 61(3), 1361-1397.
920 See “Characteristics of Municipal Securities Trading on Alternative Trading Systems and
Broker’s Broker Platforms” (2021), Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board, available at
https://www.msrb.org/Market-Topics/Reports.
921 See “Municipal Securities Pre-Trade Market Activity: What Has Changed Since 2015?”
(2020), Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board, available at
https://www.msrb.org/MarketTopics/~/link.aspx?_id=9089AC4BA1F144B388D090177FADCDD6&_z=z.
922 See supra note 866 and Section VIII.B.2.a.ii for a discussion of the impact of some of the
elements of Regulation ATS.
923 An ATS trading in municipal debt securities is subject to the Fair Access Rule if, during
at least four of the preceding six months, the ATS had five percent or more of the average
daily volume in municipal debt securities traded in the United States. See 17 CFR
242.301(b)(5)(i) and https://www.sec.gov/tm/faq-regulation-ats-fair-access-rule. See
supra Section VIII.B.2.a.ii for a discussion of the impact of the Fair Access Rule.
924 See 17 CFR 242.301(b)(6) and supra note 157 and corresponding text. Rule 301(b)(6)
currently applies to an ATS that trades only municipal debt securities with 20 percent or
397
Broker-dealers operating in the municipal bond market must be registered with the
Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board (MSRB), which creates rules governing their conduct
and transparency.925 Since 2005, all MSRB-registered dealers must report municipal bond trades
within 15 minutes of the time of execution to the MSRB’s Real-Time Transaction Reporting
System (RTRS).
926 Since 2016, dealer-reported trades to the MSRB have been required to
include an indicator to identify trades that have been executed on an ATS.927 Trades that take
place on an ATS are required to be reported both by the member dealers that transact with the
ATS, as well as by the ATS if that ATS has taken a principal position between the buyer and
seller. If the ATS only facilitates the connection between the buyer and seller but does not take a
principal or agency position, it has no reporting requirement under MSRB rules.928
b. Communication Protocol Systems in the Market for Municipal Securities

more of the average daily volume traded in the United States during at least four of the
preceding six calendar months. See supra Section VIII.B.3.a for a discussion of the
current impact of being subjected to Rule 301(b)(6).
925 The MSRB is an SRO that is overseen by the SEC. See Municipal Securities
Rulemaking Board, The Role and Jurisdiction of the MSRB, available at
https://www.msrb.org/About-MSRB/About-the-MSRB.
926 See MSRB Rule G-14 requiring brokers, dealers and municipal securities dealers
(“dealers”) to report transactions in municipal securities. The following transactions in
municipal debt securities are exempt from reporting requirements: transactions in
securities without assigned CUSIP numbers; transactions in Municipal Fund Securities;
and inter-dealer transactions for principal movement of securities between dealers that
are not inter-dealer transactions eligible for comparison in a clearing agency registered
with the Commission. Dealers are exempt from reporting if they do not affect any
transactions in municipal securities or if they only deal in exempt transactions.
927 See MSRB Letter at 3. One commenter stated that a difference between ATS trade
reporting requirements between FINRA and MSRB is that, while the MSRB, like
FINRA, requires an ATS flag for reports to their Real-time Trade Reporting System, this
only applies to interdealer trades conducted on ATSs, not trades with customers. See
BDA Letter at 3.
928 See Regulatory Notice 2015-07, Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board, May 26, 2015,
available at https://www.msrb.org/Rules-and-Interpretations/RegulatoryNotices?type=All&filter=2015.
398
At least 43.6 percent of interdealer trades (74.1 percent in terms of dollar volume) in the
municipal bond market take place via trading methods that are not ATSs, including 38.3 percent
direct dealer-to-dealer and 5.3 percent on broker’s broker platforms.
929 At least some of these
transaction are likely to take place via Communication Protocol Systems. The Commission
estimates that there are currently 3 Communication Protocol Systems operating in the municipal
debt market that may meet the definition of exchange under the proposed changes to Exchange
Act Rule 3b-16.
Of particular interest in this context are broker’s broker platforms. A broker’s broker is
defined by the MSRB as a dealer that principally effects transactions for other dealers or that
holds itself out as a broker’s broker.930 The broker’s broker does not participate in the decision
to buy or sell and does not exercise discretion as to the price at which a transaction is executed or
determine the timing of a trade.931 While broker’s brokers traditionally conducted their activities
via bilateral means such as voice trading, they have increasingly made use of electronic
systems.932 Most electronic broker’s broker platforms use only quote solicitation protocols and
do not post quotes; those that do post quotes typically are registered as an ATS with the SEC.933
However, only about 1.6 percent of all inter-dealer trades take place on broker’s broker platforms
that are registered as ATSs.

929 See id.
930 See Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board, MSRB Rule G-43.
931 See SIFMA, “The Role of Municipal Securities Broker’s Brokers in the Municipal
Markets,” 2017.
932 See “Characteristics of Municipal Securities Trading on Alternative Trading Systems and
Broker’s Broker Platforms” (2021), Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board, available at
https://www.msrb.org/Market-Topics/Reports.
933 See “Characteristics of Municipal Securities Trading on Alternative Trading Systems and
Broker’s Broker Platforms” (2021), Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board, available at
https://www.msrb.org/Market-Topics/Reports.
399
The Commission estimates that 1 Communication Protocol System trading in municipal
bonds is not currently operated by a registered broker-dealer. This system is not subject to
exchange registration or the requirements of Regulation ATS, and is not subject to FINRA
operational regulatory reporting requirements.934
If the Communication Protocol System only facilitates the connection between the buyer
and seller but does not take a principal or agency position to the transaction, the Communication
Protocol System may not currently be required to report post-trade data under MSRB rules.935
However, trades that take place on a Communication Protocol System will currently be reported
to MSRB’s RTRS if at least one party to the transaction is a municipal bond dealer.
c. Other Methods of Trading in the Market for Municipal Securities
Similar to other fixed income markets, the market for municipal securities has
traditionally relied on bilateral voice trading.
936 As mentioned above in the introduction to
Section VIII.B.4, due to the particularly fragmented and localized nature of the municipal bond
market, competition between individual dealers may be limited.
937 Therefore, it is likely that the
lack of pre-trade price transparency in a market traditionally dominated by bilateral voice trading
has been particularly costly for municipal bond customers, who lack both price information and
bargaining power when negotiating prices with their dealers over the phone. In fact, transaction

934 In this respect they are similar to Communication Protocol Systems in the market for
corporate debt. See supra Sections VIII.B.3.b and VIII.B.3.d for a discussion of the
impact of not being subject to these regulations.
935 See Regulatory Notice 2015-07, Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board, May 26, 2015,
available at https://www.msrb.org/Rules-and-Interpretations/RegulatoryNotices?type=All&filter=2015.
936 One commenter estimated only 15 percent of daily dollar trading volume in municipal
bonds is executed electronically. See BDA Letter at 1.
937 See Schultz, P. (2012). The market for new issues of municipal bonds: The roles of
transparency and limited access to retail investors. Journal of Financial Economics,
106(3), 492-512.
400
costs in the municipal bond market have typically been large compared to other markets, and
academic studies have indeed attributed these large transaction costs to a lack of price
transparency and subsequent information asymmetry between dealers and customers.938 One
MSRB report found that technological advancements in this market and the movement away
from voice trading and towards electronic trading have helped reduce transaction costs for
dealer-customer trades by 51 percent between 2005 and 2018.939
Transactions that take place via bilateral negotiations will only be reported to MSRB’s
RTRS if at least one party to the transaction is a MSRB-member dealer.
d. Competition for Municipal Securities Trading Services
The trading of municipal debt securities takes place through a variety of different
methods, including electronic protocols through ATSs and Communication Protocol Systems, as
well as more traditional methods such as telephone calls. These various methods compete with
one another in attracting order flow.
Due to the buy-and-hold nature of municipal bond trading, usually brokers’ main task is
to locate investors that are willing to buy new issues.
940 ATSs may help to reduce search costs.
Indeed, one study finds that dealers are more likely access ATS systems for trades that are more
difficult to price and that face substantial search costs, such as smaller-sized trades and trades

938 See Harris, L. E., & Piwowar, M. S. (2006). Secondary trading costs in the municipal
bond market. The Journal of Finance, 61(3), 1361-1397.
939 See “Transaction Costs for Customer Trades in the Municipal Bond Market: What is
Driving the Decline?” (2018), Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board, available at
https://www.msrb.org/MarketTopics/~/link.aspx?_id=9089AC4BA1F144B388D090177FADCDD6&_z=z.
940 See Schultz, P. (2012). The market for new issues of municipal bonds: The roles of
transparency and limited access to retail investors. Journal of Financial Economics,
106(3), 492-512.
401
involving municipal bonds with complex features.941 Accordingly, 90 percent of quotes on
municipal bond ATSs are offer quotes.942 On the other hand, the vast majority of RFQs on
municipal bond ATSs are requests for bids, reflecting that RFQ protocols are more likely to be
used when customers want to sell.943
Meanwhile, empirical results show that broker’s broker platforms, which may have
functionalities similar to Communication Protocol Systems, are more likely to be used for largesized trades, and less likely to be used for municipal bonds with complex features.944 The study
implied that this is because the lower price transparency on many broker’s broker platforms,
which do not post quotes, makes these systems less useful for trading securities that are difficult
to price.
Meanwhile, similar to the case of corporate bond markets, RFQs may instead be
preferred by traders that want to limit information leakage, such as in case of large-sized
trades.945 Furthermore, as in the market for corporate bonds, one commenter stated that the
majority of municipal bonds are not liquid enough to support order book trading.946
More generally, for the reasons described in Section VIII.B.4.c, the movement of
municipal bond trading onto electronic platforms has helped to reduce transaction costs.

941 See “Characteristics of Municipal Securities Trading on Alternative Trading Systems and
Broker’s Broker Platforms” (2021), Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board, available at
https://www.msrb.org/Market-Topics/Reports.
942 See “Municipal Securities Pre-Trade Market Activity: What Has Changed Since 2015?”
(2020), Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board, available at
https://www.msrb.org/MarketTopics/~/link.aspx?_id=9089AC4BA1F144B388D090177FADCDD6&_z=z.
943 See id.
944 See id.
945 See Section VIII.B.3.
946 See ICI Letter at 6-7.
402
Specifically, an increase in transparency in this market has particularly been beneficial for retail
investors who otherwise have little access to municipal bond information.947
The Commission preliminarily believes that, as in other fixed income markets, the
differences in regulatory regime between ATSs and other trading methods can lead to an uneven
competitive landscape and adversely impact the potential for robust competition in the market
for municipal debt securities.
5. Current State of the Equity Market
The market for U.S. equity securities represents one of the largest U.S. and global
financial markets. As of 2020, the capitalization of the U.S. equity market was estimated to be
more than $40 trillion.948 The market for equity trading services is served by exchanges, ATSs,
other trading systems, such as OTC systems, and other liquidity providers (such as internalizers).
The type of trading system on which an equity security is eligible to trade will depend on the
equity security’s characteristics, including whether the issuing company periodically reports its
financial information and whether the security is exchange-listed and/or registered with the SEC.
U.S. equity securities contain NMS stocks (including ETFs), OTC securities, and restricted
stocks, in addition to other types of securities.
a. Categorization and Trading Characteristics of U.S. Equity Securities
The largest and most liquid part of the U.S. equity market consists of national market
system (NMS) stocks. In general, NMS stocks are exchange-listed equity securities for which

947 See Craig, L., Kim, A., & Woo, S. W. (2018). Pre-Trade Information in the Municipal
Bond Market. DERA White Paper, available at
https://www.sec.gov/files/DERA_WP_Pretrade_Information_in_the_Municipal_Bond_Market.pdf.
948 See “Market capitalization of listed domestic companies (current US$) - United States,”
The World Bank, available at
https://data.worldbank.org/indicator/CM.MKT.LCAP.CD?locations=US.
403
transactions are reported pursuant to an effective transaction reporting plan.949 As of August
2021, there were around 5,669 equities listed across five exchanges.950 In September 2021, the
average daily trading volume in NMS stocks across all market centers was $545 billion.
951 The
market for trading services in NMS stocks consists of 16 national securities exchanges, and 34
ATSs, as well as other off-exchange trading venues, including broker-dealer internalizers and
wholesalers.
952
One subset of NMS stocks that has been increasing in popularity in recent years includes
exchange-traded funds (ETFs). ETFs are securities that are registered as open-end investment
companies or unit investment trusts under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (the “1940
Act”),953 that typically track financial instruments or bundles of financial instruments (such as
an index), and are listed on national securities exchanges. ETFs are investment vehicles that

949 See Regulation NMS Rules 600(b)(46) and (47) (17 CFR 242.600(b)(46) and (47)).
950 See https://www.finra.org/filing-reporting/oats/oats-reportable-securities-list. This
includes NYSE Arca, NYSE MKT, BZX Exchange (BATS), NASDAQ, and New York
Stock Exchange (NYSE).
951 See CBOE Historical Market Volume Data, available at
https://www.cboe.com/us/equities/market_statistics/historical_market_volume/market_hi
story_monthly_2019.csv. The statistic is calculated by summing the “Total Notional”
value for all entries in September 2021, and then dividing this sum by the number of
trading days in September 2021 (21).
952 There are 34 NMS Stock ATSs operating with a Form ATS-N on file. See Form ATS-N
Filings and Information, available at https://www.sec.gov/divisions/marketreg/form-atsn-filings.htm. Wholesalers are broker-dealers to whom retail brokers send their clients’
orders to be filled internally (as opposed to sending the trade orders to an exchange).
Typically, a wholesaler promises to provide price improvement relative to the NBBO for
filled orders. Wholesalers often pay retail brokers for sending their clients’ orders to the
wholesaler.
953 This discussion does not address other types of exchange-traded products that are not
registered under the 1940 Act, such as exchange-traded commodity funds or exchangetraded notes. See https://www.sec.gov/investor/alerts/etfs.pdf. It is estimated that at yearend 2020, less than 3% of net assets were held in ETFs that are not registered with or
regulated by the SEC under the Investment Company Act of 1940; see
https://www.icifactbook.org/21_fb_ch4.html.
404
issue shares that can be bought or sold throughout the day on securities exchanges in the
secondary market at a market-determined price. The ETF market has seen significant growth in
the past decade, as the number of ETFs nearly doubled from 1,134 to 2,204 and net assets more
than quintupled, from $939 billion to more than $5.3 trillion.954 ETF secondary market trading
made up 26 percent of total daily U.S. stock market trading on average in 2020.955 At the same
time, ETF liquidity may be highly concentrated, with studies estimating that more than 85
percent of all ETF value traded is concentrated in around 150 ETFs, or around five percent of all
ETFs.956 As with other NMS securities, ETFs can be traded on exchanges and at off-exchange
venues.
There is also a significant market for stocks that are not listed on a national securities
exchange, which are often referred to as over-the-counter (OTC) equities.957 As of August 2021,
there were 8,777 unlisted stocks that fell under FINRA reporting requirements.958 Unlike NMS
stocks, which may trade on- or off-exchange, OTC equities may only trade off-exchange, on
ATSs or through Communication Protocol Systems for example.
959 Liquidity in OTC equities
can be limited: a 2019 Commission analysis estimated that only 44 percent of quoted OTC
equities are traded per day, and two percent did not trade at all during the 2019 calendar year.960

954 See https://www.icifactbook.org/21_fb_ch4.html.
955 See id.
956 See id.
957 The Commission estimates that quoted OTC securities were valued at approximately
$32.3 trillion in 2019, with 94.7 percent of the total market capitalization coming from
companies that also have securities listed on public foreign exchanges.
958 See https://www.finra.org/filing-reporting/oats/oats-reportable-securities-list/.
959 See “Unraveling the Mystery of Over-the-Counter Trading” (2016), FINRA, available at
https://www.finra.org/investors/insights/unraveling-mystery-over-counter-trading.
960 See SEC Release No. 34-87115, “Publication or Submission of Quotations Without
Specified Information” Proposed Rule and Concept Release, available at
https://www.sec.gov/rules/proposed/2019/34-87115.pdf.
405
OTC equities tend to be held by small investors. One academic study found that
institutions only held about 26 percent of OTC stocks, as compared to 71 percent of listed stocks,
implying that most owners of OTC stocks are retail investors.961 A study found that retail
investors may be attracted to the low price of OTC equities, which include equities that trade
under $5 per share (so-called “penny stocks”).962
Transparency in the market for OTC securities can be limited. While some OTC equity
trading systems require issuers to register their securities with the SEC and/or periodically file
their financial statements (either with the SEC or with the trading venue), other systems may
trade in OTC equities without any reporting standards or eligibility requirements.963 The market
for OTC equities is largely regulated by FINRA under Section 15A of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, which requires FINRA to, among other things, establish rules governing the form
and content of quotations for securities sold otherwise than on an exchange.
One particular type of unlisted securities is referred to as restricted (or sometimes
“control”) stocks. Restricted stocks are either unregistered shares issued by public companies in
private placements964 or shares (both registered and unregistered) held by an issuer or its
affiliates (such as insiders and large shareholders). The secondary market for restricted stocks is

961 See Andrew Ang et al., Asset Pricing in the Dark: The Cross-Section of OTC Stocks, 26
Rev. Fin. Studs. 2985–3028 (2013).
962 See “Unraveling the Mystery of Over-the-Counter Trading” (2016), FINRA, available at
https://www.finra.org/investors/insights/unraveling-mystery-over-counter-trading.
963 See https://www.sec.gov/reportspubs/investorpublications/investorpubsmicrocapstockhtm.html. Note that, as discussed in infra
Section VIII.5.d, recent amendments to 17 CFR 240.15c2-11 (Rule 15c2-11 of the
Exchange Act) adopted in September 2020 limit public quoting in OTC equities for
which current financial statement information is not publically available.
964 Unregistered securities typically avoid SEC registration through one of two exemptions:
Regulation D offerings, which are mostly limited to accredited (i.e., institutional or highnet-worth) investors, and Regulation A offerings, which are open to unaccredited
investors.
406
governed by 17 CFR 230.144 (Securities Act Rule 144), and allows restricted stocks to be sold to
the public if several conditions are met.965 While investments in restricted stocks are typically
limited to only accredited investors, new SEC rules adopted in 2015 under Section 401 of the
Jumpstart Our Business Startups (JOBS) Act, often referred to as “Regulation A+,” expanded the
ability for non-accredited investors to trade in certain unregistered equities. Eligible restricted
stocks can be traded on a number of electronic platforms that specialize in the secondary market
for restricted shares, as well as through broker-dealers.966
b. ATSs in the Equity Market
As mentioned above, NMS stocks that are listed on national securities exchanges may
trade both on exchanges and at off-exchange trading venues, including on ATSs. Currently there
are 34 NMS Stock ATSs, collectively handling an average of around 453 million trades during
Q3 2021.967 Since the adoption of Regulation NMS in 2005, the market for trading services has
become more fragmented, and the proportion of NMS stocks trading off-exchange has increased.
For example, as of July 2020, NMS Stock ATSs comprised approximately 10 percent of
consolidated dollar volume, and other off-exchange volume totaled approximately 23 percent of
consolidated dollar volume.
968

965 See https://www.sec.gov/reportspubs/investor-publications/investorpubsrule144htm.html.
These conditions include a minimum holding period, the availability of up-to-date
information about the issuing company, and certain limits to the size of the trade. In
addition, notice of trades by affiliates are required to be filed with the SEC, and the trades
themselves must be handled by a broker as a routine transaction (e.g., no special
commissions).
966 See, e.g., Private Equity Exchange (http://peqx.com/); Nasdaq Private Market
(https://www.nasdaq.com/secondmarket).
967 See https://www.finra.org/filing-reporting/otc-transparency/ats-quarterly-statistics.
968 See Market Data Infrastructure Final Rule, Release No. 90610 (Dec. 9, 2020), available
at https://www.sec.gov/rules/final/2020/34-90610.pdf.
407
NMS Stock ATSs generally operate as non-displayed venues, which do not display
quotes. Traditionally, market participants that used non-displayed venues to trade listed stocks
have been large institutional investors seeking to execute block trades. However, average trade
sizes in many ATSs have shrunk from block-size trades to smaller trade sizes that match those of
traditional exchanges. In 2018, the Commission found that, while eight NMS Stock ATSs had
average trade sizes larger than 10,000 shares, the vast majority had average trade sizes between
100 and 460 shares, which is similar to average trade sizes on the national securities
exchanges.
969 One feature, among others, that may attract some market participants to nondisplayed venues is their lower information leakage as compared to trades on exchanges.
NMS Stock ATSs are subject to Regulation ATS and are also required to file and
publicly disclose Form ATS-N. Furthermore, those with significant volume are required to
comply with the requirements of Regulation SCI970 and the Fair Access Rule.971 Trades in NMS
stocks that are transacted off-exchange, which includes transactions on ATSs, are required to be
reported to one of three FINRA Trade Reporting Facilities (TRF).
972 If the execution is handled

969 See SEC Release No. 34-83663, “Regulation of NMS Stock Alternative Trading
Systems,” available at https://www.sec.gov/rules/final/2018/34-83663.pdf.
970 An ATS trading in NMS stock is subject to Regulation SCI if, during at least four of the
preceding six months, the ATS had five percent or more in any single NMS stock, and
0.25 percent or more in all NMS stocks, of the average daily dollar volume reported by
applicable effective transaction reporting plans, or one percent or more, in all NMS
stocks, of the average daily dollar volume reported by applicable effective transaction
reporting plans. See https://www.sec.gov/divisions/marketreg/regulation-sci-faq.shtml.
See supra Section VIII.B.2.a.ii for a discussion of the impact of Regulation SCI.
971 An ATS trading in NMS stock is subject to the Fair Access Rule if, during at least four of
the preceding six months, the ATS had five percent or more of the average daily volume
in an NMS stock reported by an effective transaction reporting plan. See 17 CFR
242.301(b)(5)(i) and https://www.sec.gov/tm/faq-regulation-ats-fair-access-rule. See
supra Section VIII.B.2.a.ii for a discussion of the impact of the Fair Access Rule.
972 These include FINRA/Nasdaq TRF Carteret, FINRA/Nasdaq TRF Chicago, and
FINRA/NYSE TRF. See https://www.finra.org/filing-reporting/trf/trf-exchangeparticipants.
408
by an ATS, then in most cases the ATS has the reporting obligation and must report itself as a
counterparty to both sides of the trade.973
Furthermore, national securities exchanges, national securities associations and Industry
Members974 that receive or originate orders975 in Eligible Securities976 are required to report any
Reportable Event977 to the Consolidated Audit Trail (CAT), which is designed to capture
customer and order event information from the time of order inception through routing,

973 See https://www.finra.org/filing-reporting/market-transparency-reporting/trade-reportingfaq. Certain transactions are exempt from FINRA TRF reporting requirements; see
https://www.finra.org/filing-reporting/market-transparency-reporting/trade-reportingfaq#500 and FINRA Rules 6282(f)(1), 6380A(e)(1), 6380B(e)(1), and 6622(e)(1).
974 The national market system plan governing the consolidated audit trail (“CAT NMS
Plan”) is a national market system plan approved by the Commission pursuant to Section
11A of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations thereunder. See Securities
Exchange Act Release No. 79318 (November 15, 2016), 81 FR 84696 (November 23,
2016). The CAT NMS Plan and subsequent amendments to the Plan are available at
https://catnmsplan.com/about-cat/cat-nms-plan. Section 1.1 of the CAT NMS Plan
defines an Industry Member as a member of a national securities exchange or a member
of a national securities association. “CAT Reporters” include national securities
exchanges, national securities associations and Industry Members that are required to
record and report information to the Central Repository pursuant to SEC Rule 613(c).
975 Section 1.1 of the CAT NMS Plan defines the term “order,” with respect to Eligible
Securities, as having the meaning set forth in 17 CFR 242.613(j)(8) (SEC Rule 613(j)(8)).
SEC Rule 613(j)(8) defines an “order” as any order received by a member of a national
securities exchange or national securities association from any person; any order
originated by a member of a national securities exchange or national securities
association; or any bid or offer.
976 Section 1.1 of the CAT NMS Plan defines Eligible Securities as” (a) all NMS Securities
and (b) all OTC Equity Securities,” where OTC Equity Securities are defined as any
equity security, other than an NMS Security, subject to prompt last sale reporting rules of
a registered national securities association and reported to one of such association’s
equity trade reporting facilities.” This includes both OTC Equity Securities and
transactions in Restricted Equity Securities effected pursuant to Securities Act Rule
144A. See CAT NMS Plan, supra note 974.
977 According to Section 1.1 of the CAT NMS Plan, “Reportable Event” includes, but is not
limited to, the original receipt or origination, modification, cancellation, routing,
execution (in whole or in part) and allocation of an order, and receipt of a routed order.
See CAT NMS Plan, supra note 974.
409
cancellation, modification, or execution in a single, consolidated data source. The Participants978
have issued guidance stating that trading interest must be “firm” to fall within the definition of an
“order,” and thus be reportable to CAT, and so certain trading interest (e.g., conditional orders)
that may be available on some ATSs is not reportable to the CAT until it is “firmed
up”/confirmed.979
OTC equities also trade on ATSs. There are currently five ATSs operating in the OTC
equity market. As of Q3 2021, FINRA reports that OTC equity ATSs collectively handled
around 4 million trades.980 ATSs that offer trading services in OTC equities also typically
operate as interdealer quotation systems (IDQS), which regularly disseminate broker-dealer
quotes.981 The majority of OTC equity trading on ATSs is concentrated on one platform, which
executed more than 60 percent of OTC equity ATS trading in Q1 2021. ATSs that trade in OTC
equities usually segment securities into different markets or use eligibility status symbols to
inform investors regarding issuers’ regulatory compliance and disclosure.982 This is designed to

978 The Participants are the national securities exchanges and national securities associations
who collectively control and operate the CAT.
979 See CAT FAQ B40, available at https://www.catnmsplan.com/faq. This release refers to
the FAQs published by the Participants because the Commission believes those FAQs are
guiding the how Industry Members are reporting information to the CAT. The
Commission has not approved the FAQs so is expressing no view in this release
regarding such FAQs.
980 See https://www.finra.org/filing-reporting/otc-transparency/ats-quarterly-statistics. Note
that this dataset aggregates volume across two OTC Link LLC-operated ATSs under the
label OTC LINK ECN ATS.
981 Rule 15c2-11 of the Exchange Act defines an inter-dealer quotation system as any system
of general circulation to brokers or dealers that regularly disseminates quotations of
identified brokers or dealers, and further defines a qualified inter-dealer quotation system
as any inter-dealer quotation system that meets the definition of an “alternative trading
system” and operates pursuant to the exemption from the definition of an “exchange.”
982 For example, the OTC Link LLC ATS is organized into several market places, broadly
organized according to the issuers’ regulatory compliance and disclosure: OTCQX,
which includes equities that are subject to and current with the reporting requirements of
the Exchange Act, and that additionally meet numerous other eligibility requirements;
410
inform investors whether companies are current or delinquent in their filing requirements in the
interest of transparency.983 One academic study found that OTC equities that are subject to
stricter disclosure requirements have higher market quality, including higher liquidity and lower
crash risk.984
FINRA is the SRO that regulates trading in OTC securities. The Commission
understands that the current ATS market place for OTC equities has evolved to replace the
functions formally performed by the OTC Bulletin Board (OTCBB), a FINRA-operated interdealer quotation system for OTC equities that was retired by FINRA in November 2021.
985 In
its filing with the SEC, FINRA cited technological advancements and “the subsequent increase
in alternative electronic venues with more extensive functionality than the OTCBB” as reasons
for its retirement, which highlights market participants’ preference for electronic trading systems
in this market.986 Concurrently to its retirement of the OTCBB, FINRA has adopted new Rule
6439 (Requirements for Member Inter-Dealer Quotation Systems), which implements additional

OTCQB, which includes equities that are subject to and current with the reporting
requirements of the Exchange Act, but not subject to any additional eligibility
requirements; and Pink Sheets, which includes equities without any reporting or
eligibility requirements. A fourth tier, the so-called “Expert Market” or “Grey Market,”
contains equities that are not or cannot be publically quoted, either due to regulatory
restrictions or lack of investor interest. See https://www.sec.gov/reportspubs/investorpublications/investorpubsmicrocapstockhtm.html. Additionally, for another example, see
https://www.globalotc.com/brokers/eligible-securities
983 See Cass Sanford, Understanding the Expert Market, OTC MARKETS BLOG (March 25,
2021), available at https://blog.otcmarkets.com.
984 See Brüggemann, U., Kaul, A., Leuz, C., & Werner, I. M. (2018). The twilight zone:
OTC regulatory regimes and market quality. The Review of Financial Studies, 31(3),
898-942.
985 See https://www.finra.org/rules-guidance/notices/21-38.
986 See SEC Release No. 34-90067, October 1, 2020, “Self-Regulatory Organizations;
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc.; Notice of Filing of a Proposed Rule
Change to Adopt FINRA Rule 6439 (Requirements for Member Inter-Dealer Quotation
Systems) and Delete the Rules Related to the OTC Bulletin Board Service,” available at
https://www.sec.gov/rules/sro/finra/2020/34-90067.pdf.
411
requirements for firms that operate systems that regularly disseminate quotes in OTC equities,
including requirements related to fair access, transparency, and systems integrity.987
Furthermore, trades to which a FINRA member is a party must be reported to FINRA’s OTC
Reporting Facility (ORF) within ten seconds of execution.988 This includes executions in OTC
equities, as well as executions in restricted stocks effected under 17 CFR 230.144A (Securities
Act Rule 144A); however, trades in restricted equity securities effected under Rule 144A are
reported to the ORF for regulatory purposes only and are not publicly disseminated. Similarly to
requirements for FINRA’s TRF described above, if the execution is handled by an ATS, then in
most cases the ATS has the reporting obligation and must report itself as a counterparty to both
sides of the trade.989 In addition, OTC equities fall within the definition of “Eligible Securities”
under the CAT NMS Plan, and therefore any eligible events in OTC equities are reportable to
CAT.990
In addition to its requirements under FINRA, ATSs that trade in OTC equities must
comply with Regulation ATS, including filing Form ATS and periodically filing Form ATS-R,
and complying with Regulation SCI991 and the Fair Access Rule if volume thresholds are met.
992

987 See https://www.finra.org/rules-guidance/notices/21-28.
988 FINRA Rule Series 6620 and 7300 govern OTC and restricted equity trade reporting to
FINRA Facilities. See https://www.finra.org/filing-reporting/market-transparencyreporting/trade-reporting-faq.
989 See supra note 973.
990 See supra notes 974 to 979 and corresponding discussion.
991 An ATS trading in non-NMS stock is subject to Regulation SCI if, during at least four of
the preceding six months, the ATS had five percent or more of the average daily volume
in transactions that are reported to and calculated by a self-regulatory organization, such
as FINRA. See https://www.sec.gov/divisions/marketreg/regulation-sci-faq.shtml. See
supra Section VIII.B.2.a.ii for a discussion of the impact of Regulation SCI.
992 An ATS trading in non-NMS stock is subject to the Fair Access Rule if, during at least
four of the preceding six months, the ATS had five percent or more of the average daily
volume in non-NMS stock transactions that are reported to and calculated by a selfregulatory organization, such as FINRA. See 17 CFR 242.301(b)(5)(i) and
412
However, ATSs that trade in OTC equities are not required to file and publicly disclose Form
ATS-N.
c. National Securities Exchanges for NMS Stock
NMS Stock ATSs compete with national securities exchanges in the market for trading
services in NMS securities. Currently, 16 national securities exchanges effect transactions in
NMS stocks. These exchanges accounted for 58 percent of NMS security share volume and 65
percent of NMS security dollar volume in September 2021.993 National securities exchanges
have greater regulatory obligations than NMS Stock ATSs. They must register with the
Commission on Form 1, file proposed rule changes with the Commission under Section 19(b) of
the Exchange Act, and are SROs. The proposed rule changes of national securities exchanges
must be made available for public comment,994 and in general, these proposed rule changes
publicly disclose, among other things, details relating to the exchange’s operations, procedures,
and fees. The Commission reviews the rules of national securities exchanges, a process which
requires, among other things, that to approve certain rule changes, the Commission find that the
national securities exchange’s proposed rule changes are consistent with the Exchange Act.
995
National securities exchanges and other SROs also have regulatory obligations, such as

https://www.sec.gov/tm/faq-regulation-ats-fair-access-rule. See supra Section
VIII.B.2.a.ii for a discussion of the impact of the Fair Access Rule.
993 See CBOE Historical Market Volume Data, available at
https://www.cboe.com/us/equities/market_statistics/historical_market_volume/,
market_history_monthly_2021.csv. This statistic is calculated by dividing the sum of all
non-FINRA entries for the month of September 2021 divided by the sum of all entries for
the month of September 2021.
994 See 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1).
995 See 15 U.S.C. 78s(b).
413
enforcing their rules and the Federal securities laws with respect to their members, which do not
apply to market participants such as ATSs.996
While national securities exchanges have more regulatory obligations than NMS Stock
ATSs, they also enjoy certain unique benefits that are not afforded to NMS Stock ATSs. While
national securities exchanges are SROs, and are thus subject to surveillance and oversight by the
Commission, they can still establish norms regarding conduct, trading, and fee structures for
external access. Trading venues that elect to register as national securities exchanges may gain
added prestige by establishing listing standards for their securities. Additionally, national
securities exchanges can be direct participants in NMS plans, which provides additional sources
of revenue and input into the operation of the national market system that is not available to
NMS Stock ATSs.997
d. Communication Protocol Systems in the Equity Market
The Commission estimates that there are currently 4 Communication Protocol Systems
operating in the market for NMS stocks that may meet the definition of exchange under the
proposed changes to Exchange Act Rule 3b-16. Furthermore, the Commission understands that
some NMS Stock ATSs offer functionalities similar to Communication Protocol Systems, such
as conditional orders and IOIs, both of which can interact with their limit order books. As
mentioned in Section II.B.2, the Commission has observed that 26 NMS Stock ATSs have
disclosed on their public Form ATS-N that they send or receive messages indicating trading
interest, such as conditional orders.

996 See, e.g., Section 19(b) of the Exchange Act, 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1), and Section 6(b) of the
Exchange Act, 15 U.S.C. 78f(b).
997 See Regulation ATS Adopting Release, supra note 31, at 70880, 70902–70903 (Section
discussing generally some of the obligations and benefits of registering as a national
securities exchange).
414
While NMS Stock ATSs may make use of Communication Protocol System
functionalities, there is limited evidence that Communication Protocol Systems play a significant
role in the non-ATS OTC market for liquid NMS stocks in the U.S.998 One commenter stated
that NMS stocks and ETFs with limited liquidity are now beginning to use protocols such as
RFQ to bridge liquidity gaps.999 However, because the Commission lacks data on the use of
protocols that would qualify as Communication Protocol Systems by non-ATS trading systems
operating in the OTC equity market, it is unable to quantify to what extent Communication
Protocol Systems are used in the non-ATS OTC market for NMS stocks. The Commission
requests comment on this issue.
Communication Protocol System operators cite their protocols’ abilities to service very
large orders, the option for participants to pick and choose which aspects of their order to
disclose (e.g., price or size), and higher discretion as advantages of these protocols over trading
on exchanges or ATSs.1000 However, some market participants have expressed skepticism over
information leakage in the use of RFQs for equity transactions, as their use may signal that the
participants are unable to locate “natural” sources of liquidity.1001

998 On the contrary, RFQ platforms are increasingly playing a role in block trading in
European equities, particularly in the wake of the 2018 adoption of MiFID II, which
placed limits on other off-exchange sources of liquidity. See, e.g., Basar, Shanny. (2020,
March 31). MarketsMedia, available at https://www.marketsmedia.com/icap-adds-toequity-rfqs/.
999 See Bloomberg Letter at 3, 10, 20, and 23. The commenter also referenced that trading in
small and micro NMS stocks on exchanges has been difficult and has not necessarily
improved with recent technological changes. See Bloomberg Letter at 21, citing
https://www.nasdaq.com/articles/nasdaqs-proposal-improve-trading-environment-smalland-medium-growth-companies-and.
1000 See “RFQ for Equities: One Year On,” (2019), Tradeweb, available at
https://www.tradeweb.com/newsroom/media-center/insights/blog/rfq-for-equities-oneyear-on/.
1001 See, e.g., McDowell, Hayley. (2018, October 23). “Buy-side throws doubt on RFQ for
equities as ‘last chance saloon’ for liquidity,” THETRADE, available at
415
Communication Protocol Systems may also play a role in the trading of U.S.-listed ETFs.
However, the Commission lacks data to quantify what proportion of ETF volume trades via
Communication Protocol Systems. At least one trading system operator claims to offer several
protocols, including RFQ, for trading in U.S.-listed ETFs.
1002 The use of Communication
Protocol Systems for trading in ETFs may be motivated by a lack of liquidity in some ETF
securities, and associated risks involved in trading in illiquid ETFs.1003 Similar to the corporate
bond market, the use of Communication Protocol Systems may also be used for the trading of
bundles of securities in order to facilitate transaction services for participants that may be using
the same Communication Protocol System to trade in the securities underlying ETFs.1004
Unlike NMS Stock ATSs, Communication Protocol Systems that trade NMS stocks are
not subject to any of the requirements of Regulation SCI or Regulation ATS, including the
requirement to file the public Form ATS-N. Trades in NMS stocks that are transacted elsewhere
than on an exchange, which may include transactions executed on a Communication Protocol
System, are required to be reported to FINRA TRF as discussed in Section VIII.B.5.a if at least
one of the parties to the transaction is a FINRA member.

https://www.thetradenews.com/buy-side-throws-doubt-rfq-equities-last-chance-saloonliquidity/.
1002 See, e.g., “ETFs”, Tradeweb, available at https://www.tradeweb.com/ourmarkets/institutional/equities/ETPs_Funds/. Additional market participants may also be
developing Communication Protocol Systems for U.S.-listed ETFs. See, e.g., Rennison,
Joe, April 4, 2019, “MarketAxess muscles into ETF industry with Virtu tie-up,” Financial
Times, available at https://www.ft.com/content/b88d53b6-5709-11e9-a3db1fe89bedc16e.
1003 See, e.g., Bae, K., & Kim, D. (2020). Liquidity risk and exchange-traded fund returns,
variances, and tracking errors. Journal of Financial Economics, 138(1), 222-253.
1004 See supra Section VIII.B.3.b for a discussion of portfolio trading on Communication
Protocol Systems in the corporate bond market.
416
Trading interest on Communication Protocol Systems may not be required to be reported
to CAT, depending on the nature of the solicitation and/or response(s) as firm or non-firm. CAT
guidance issued by the Participants provides that non-firm expressions of trading interest that
contain information about the security name, side, size, capacity and/or price, which includes
IOIs and RFQs, do not fall within the definition of an “order” and are therefore not reportable to
CAT.1005 However, this guidance also states that any response to an RFQ or other form of
solicitation response that is accessible electronically and is immediately actionable (i.e., no
further manual or electronic action is required by the responder providing the quote in order to
execute or cause a trade to be executed) is reportable whether or not it is ultimately accepted.
Furthermore, once an order is “firmed up” by the initiating participant and winning bidder, the
origination of the new order by the initiating participant, the routing of that new order to the
winning bidder, and the acceptance of that order by the winning bidder are all reportable events,
with the initiating participant reporting the new order and routing events, and the winning bidder
reporting the order acceptance, as well as any subsequent actions taken to process the order.1006
 The Commission understands that the majority of trading in OTC equities takes place on
IDQS, most of which are registered as ATSs. However, there may be some IDQS or other OTC
equity trading systems that are not registered as ATSs and that operate using trading protocols
that would qualify as Communication Protocol Systems.1007 The Commission estimates that
there may currently be 1 Communication Protocol System operating in the OTC equity market.
Such a trading system may not be subject to FINRA Rule 6439 or trade reporting requirements,

1005 See CAT FAQ B3, available at https://www.catnmsplan.com/faq.
1006 See CAT FAQ B45, available at https://www.catnmsplan.com/faq.
1007 See SEC Release No. 34-87115, “Publication or Submission of Quotations Without
Specified Information” Proposed Rule and Concept Release, available at
https://www.sec.gov/rules/proposed/2019/34-87115.pdf.
417
or quoting requirements under the amended Rule 15c2-11 discussed in the next paragraph, if it is
not operated by a FINRA member and does not meet the definition of a “qualifying” IDQS. The
Commission lacks the data to estimate the number or trading volume of IDQS or other OTC
equity trading systems that operate as Communication Protocol Systems and are not registered as
broker-dealers. The Commission requests comment on this topic.
Communication Protocol Systems may also play a role in the Grey Market for OTC
equities.1008 Recent amendments to Rule 15c2-11 adopted in September 2020 limit public
quoting in OTC equities for which current financial statement information is not publically
available.1009 This limits the ability of many OTC equities to trade on ATSs,
1010 but many OTC
securities are still traded even without publically available quotes.
1011 However, due to the
opacity of this market, the Commission lacks data to estimate the extent to which broker-dealers
trading in Grey Market equities are using protocols that would qualify as Communication
Protocol Systems and requests comment on this issue.
Communication Protocol Systems may play a role in the secondary market for restricted
shares. The Commission preliminarily estimates that there are currently 10 Communication
Protocol Systems operating in the market for restricted shares. Furthermore, an estimated 2 of
these are run by non-broker-dealers, who therefore would not currently be subject to the

1008 See supra note 982.
1009 See https://www.sec.gov/news/press-release/2020-212.
1010 In compliance with the amendments, in March 2021 OTC Markets announced that OTC
equities without current public information would be moved off its Pink Sheets market
place. See https://blog.otcmarkets.com/2021/03/25/understanding-the-expert-market/.
1011 In 2018, the Commission estimated that 5,915 OTC securities were traded at some point
during the year without having published quotations, and 3% of these securities had
average daily trading volumes above $100,000. See SEC Release No. 34-87115,
“Publication or Submission of Quotations Without Specified Information” Proposed Rule
and Concept Release, available at https://www.sec.gov/rules/proposed/2019/34-
87115.pdf.
418
associated costs of complying with broker-dealer filing and conduct obligations, including
becoming a member of an SRO, such as FINRA.1012
Unlike ATSs that trade OTC equities, Communication Protocol Systems that trade OTC
equities are not subject to any of the requirements of Regulation ATS. Trades in OTC equities
and restricted equities effected under Securities Act Rule 144A that are transacted elsewhere
than on an exchange, which may include transactions executed on a Communication Protocol
System, are required to be reported to FINRA’s OTC ORF as described in Section VIII.B.5.a, if
at least one of the parties to the transaction is a FINRA member.
e. Other Methods of Trading in Equities
The majority of off-exchange trading in NMS stocks occurs outside of ATSs. A DERA
white paper estimated that, in 2014, non-ATS off-exchange trading in NMS stocks represented
nearly 17 percent of total equity market dollar volume;1013 by July 2020, this number increased
to 23 percent, while trading on ATSs was composed of only 10 percent of total equity market
dollar volume.
1014 The DERA white paper found that more than a third of non-ATS trading
volume in NMS stock comprised of retail orders executed by OTC market makers.1015 Block
trades (i.e., trades larger than 10,000 shares) made up a higher percentage of non-ATS trading

1012 See supra Section III.B.1.
1013 See Tuttle, L. A. (2014). OTC trading: Description of non-ATS OTC trading in National
Market System stocks. DERA White Paper.
1014 See Market Data Infrastructure Final Rule, Release No. 90610 (Dec. 9, 2020), available
at https://www.sec.gov/rules/final/2020/34-90610.pdf.
1015 See Tuttle, L. A. (2014). OTC trading: Description of non-ATS OTC trading in National
Market System stocks. DERA White Paper. A more recent study found that retail
wholesalers accounted for 49.9 percent of off-exchange trading in Q3 2021. See
Rosenblatt Securities, November 4, 2021, “A Closer Look at Off Exchange and Retail
Market Share.”
419
volume than ATS trading volume.1016 Additionally, single-dealer platforms (SDPs) accounted
for nine percent of off-exchange trading volume in Q3 2021.1017
The Commission believes that manually negotiated trades via the telephone are still
taking place in the market for NMS stocks, in particular for large block trades by institutional
investors.1018 A survey taken in April 2014 estimated that more than 55 percent of buy-side U.S.
equity trading was still being executed via phone calls.
1019
Additionally, it is likely that traditional bilateral negotiations are still actively used in the
market for OTC equities as well, particularly in the Grey Market and the market for restricted
equities, where electronic trading may be limited due to restrictions on public quoting activity.
However, due to the opacity of this market, it is difficult to estimate the extent to which voice
trading still plays a role in the market for OTC and restricted equities.
As described above in Section VIII.B.5.a, trades in equities that are transacted elsewhere
than on an exchange, which may include transactions executed via voice trading, are required to
be reported to either FINRA’s TRF (in the case of NMS stocks) or ORF (in the case of OTC or
restricted equities) if at least one of the parties to the transaction is a FINRA member. As
described above, trades in restricted equity securities are reported for regulatory purposes only
and are not publicly disseminated.

1016 See Tuttle, L. A. (2014). OTC trading: Description of non-ATS OTC trading in National
Market System stocks. DERA White Paper. Specifically, defining block trades as trades
of 10,000 or more shares, block trades comprised only 0.10 percent of dark ATS trading
while they comprise 2.53 percent of non-ATS OTC trading.
1017 SDPs do not permit participants to post liquidity, but rather offer bilateral trading with
the counterparty operating the venue. See id.
1018 See, e.g., https://www.ft.com/content/44841008-3cf7-11e4-a2ab-00144feabdc0.
1019 In the survey, market participants cited the expertise and consulting services offered by
brokers as some of the benefits of using the phone to conduct “high touch” trades. See
https://www.greenwich.com/press-release/high-touch-execution-consulting-services-andperformance-driving-technologies-spell.
420
f. Competition in the Market for Equity Trading Services
As discussed above, since Regulation NMS was adopted in 2005, the market for equity
trading services has become more fragmented, with trading fragmented not only across
exchanges, but across different trading systems (exchanges, ATSs, and non-ATS off-exchange
trading venues). For instance, from 2005 to 2013, there was a decline in the market share of
trading volume for exchange-listed stocks on NYSE.1020 At the same time, there was an increase
in the market share of newer national securities exchanges such as NYSE Arca, Cboe BYX, and
Cboe BZX.1021 This development increased competition in the market for trading services.
Several academic studies have shown that an increase in competition between exchanges, or
between exchanges and ATSs, improves market quality by reducing transactions costs and
increasing liquidity.1022
Trading venues compete with each other along a number dimensions in order to attract
order flow. For example, in addition to other ways, trading venues can compete via fees, rebates,
speed, and trading protocols in order to attract order flow.
1023 However, the actual level of
competition that any given trading venue faces may depend on multiple factors including the
liquidity of a stock as well as the type of trading venue and market participant engaging in the
trade. A market participant’s preference for where to trade can depend on a number of factors,

1020 See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 76474 (Nov. 18, 2015), 80 FR 80998, 81112
(Dec. 28, 2015) (Regulation of NMS Stock Alternative Trading Systems Proposing
Release).
1021 See id.
1022 See, e.g., Foucault, T., & Menkveld, A. J. (2008). Competition for order flow and smart
order routing systems. The Journal of Finance, 63(1), 119-158; O'Hara, M., & Ye, M.
(2011). Is market fragmentation harming market quality? Journal of Financial
Economics, 100(3), 459-474.
1023 See, e.g., Cantillon, E., & Yin, P. L. (2011). Competition between exchanges: A research
agenda. International journal of industrial organization, 29(3), 329-336; Budish, E., Lee,
R. S., & Shim, J. J. (2019). A Theory of Stock Exchange Competition and Innovation:
Will the Market Fix the Market? National Bureau of Economic Research.
421
including, among other things, speed, anonymity, and price impact. The choice of trading venue
may also be limited by regulatory restrictions on where certain equities may be traded and by
whom, as quoting activities in some OTC stocks are restricted, and some investors are prohibited
from trading in certain types of equities, such as restricted stocks.
6. Current State of Options Markets
There are currently 16 exchanges (“options exchanges”) and 1 ATS offering listed
options trading services. During the month of October 2021, approximately 39 million options
contracts, equating to approximately $21 billion in total premiums, were traded daily on
exchanges.1024 The market for listed options has been historically dominated by institutional
investors;1025 however, the market has seen a dramatic increase in retail investor participation in
recent years.
1026
a. Currently Regulated Trading Systems in the Market for Listed Options
The market for listed options trading services is dominated by registered exchanges. This
dominance stems from the role of the Options Clearing Corporation (OCC), which is the sole
entity clearing trades for exchange-listed options, security futures, and OTC options.1027 Central
clearing of listed options incentivizes the use of exchanges. Exchanges offer traders a

1024 See OCC Monthly & Weekly Volume Statistics, available at
https://www.theocc.com/Market-Data/Market-Data-Reports/Volume-and-OpenInterest/Monthly-Weekly-Volume-Statistics. These statistics were calculated by
downloading the monthly files for “Equity,” “Index,” and “ETF” options for October
2021. The OCC combined value from each file was added together and divided by the
trading days in October 2021 to generate these statistics.
1025 See Bennett, Jay, John Colon, and John Feng. (2010). FIA, available at
https://secure.fia.org/files/css/magazinearticles/article-1446.pdf.
1026 See Thyagaraju Adinarayan, “Retail trading fever drives U.S. equity option volumes to
record monthly high”, Reuters, (2021, February 3). (Retrieved from Factiva database).
1027 See “What Is OCC?” The Options Clearing Corporation, available at
https://www.theocc.com/Company-Information/What-Is-OCC.
422
centralized location to interact with other traders in the market. Exchanges compete with each
other by offering different cost structures to participate on the exchange, and differing order
types to allow customers advanced trading strategies. Largely due to regulation,
1028 options
exchanges offer the ability to route orders to competing options exchanges in the event of a
competing option exchange having the best price for a given options order. Thus, while there is
competition amongst options exchanges for trading services, they are joined together in an
integrated market system.
There is one ATS in the market for listed options. As the Commission understands, this
ATS offers participants an RFQ protocol.1029 A customer may accept the quote the ATS returns
from the RFQ protocol. However, the orders are routed to an exchange for execution.
As described above, the ATS in the market for listed option trading services competes
with exchanges by offering the potential of price improvement on orders, the ability to view
market liquidity without submitting a firm order, and the ability to interact with multiple market
makers, across multiple exchanges, simultaneously. It should be noted, however, that this
competition is not direct; the ATS ultimately sends orders to exchanges, and thus could be seen
as complementary to exchanges.
Options exchanges are subject to many of the same regulations as NMS Stock trading
systems. Options exchanges are part of the NMS and are required to participate in many NMS
plans. Options exchanges also are subject to Regulation SCI.
Similar to other security types, an ATS that trades in listed option securities must comply
with Regulation ATS and broker-dealer filing and conduct obligations, including becoming a

1028 See https://www.sec.gov/rules/final/34-43591.htm.
1029 See “Liquidity Management Software For US Listed Options Market”, DASH Financial,
available at https://dashfinancial.com/execution-services/dash-ats/.
423
member of an SRO, such as FINRA. In addition, listed options fall within the definition of
“eligible securities” under the CAT NMS Plan, and therefore any eligible events in listed options
are reportable to CAT.1030
b. Communication Protocol Systems in the Market for Listed Options
As the Commission understands, there is currently 1 Communication Protocol System
trading in listed options that may meet the definition of exchange under the proposed changes to
Exchange Act Rule 3b-16.1031 This Communication Protocol System operates in a similar
fashion to the single ATS in the market for listed options described above in Section VIII.B.6.a.
This system offers an RFQ protocol that allows a customer to request a quote for a specified
option. The system then surveys market makers of options exchanges. The system returns the
quotes to the customer, where the customer has the ability to accept one of the proposed trades.
The trade is then executed on the option exchange. The Commission requests comment on the
full role of Communication Protocol Systems in the market for listed options.
Communication Protocol Systems compete with options exchanges and ATSs for trading
services. Similar to ATSs, Communication Protocol Systems in the market for listed options
ultimately interact with exchanges in their trading operations; thus, the competition between
Communication Protocol Systems and exchanges might be better characterized as a
complementary relationship. As the Commission understands, competition between ATSs and
Communication Protocol Systems in the market for listed options occurs primarily through the
quality of their trading systems, cost structures, and speed of RFQ protocol completion.
Communication Protocol Systems in the market for listed options are not formally
regulated by any regulatory authority. This lack of regulation puts listed option ATSs at a

1030 See supra notes 974 to 979 and corresponding discussion.
1031 See “Request-for-Quote Options Trading”, Tradeweb, available at
https://www2.tradeweb.com/optionsweb.
424
disadvantage compared to Communication Protocol Systems. The Commission believes that the
participation of the OCC in centrally clearing options trades on exchanges is a major factor
contributing to the decision of traders to trade on options exchanges compared to using
Communication Protocol Systems and ATSs.
As in the market for equities, trading interest in listed options on Communication
Protocol Systems may not be required to be reported to CAT, depending on the nature of the
solicitation and/or response(s) as firm or non-firm.1032
7. Other Securities
a. Repurchase and Reverse Repurchase Agreements
The market for repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements1033 plays a role both in the
stability of the banking and financial system and in the transmission of U.S. monetary policy.
Repurchase agreements account for between $4 trillion and $6 trillion in notional value trades
daily.
1034 Moreover, reverse repurchase agreements have become an important tool of monetary
policy. Specifically, the market for reverse repurchase agreements is used by banks to lend out
excess reserves, while the market for repurchase agreements is used to borrow to meet reserve
requirements.
1035

1032 See supra notes 1005 and 1006 and corresponding discussion.
1033 See supra Section III.A for a discussion of “repos” (repurchase agreements and reverse
repurchase agreements on government securities). While U.S. Treasury Securities are
frequently used as the underlying collateral of repurchase and reverse repurchase
agreements, other securities may also be used, such as corporate bonds and stocks.
1034 See Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (US), All Sectors; Federal Funds
and Security Repurchase Agreements; Asset, Level [BOGZ1FL892050005Q], retrieved
from FRED, Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis;
https://fred.stlouisfed.org/series/BOGZ1FL892050005Q, December 2, 2021.
1035 See, e.g., Cheng, Jeffrey and David Wessel. “What is the repo market, and why does it
matter?” (2020). Brookings Institute, available at https://www.brookings.edu/blog/upfront/2020/01/28/what-is-the-repo-market-and-why-does-it-matter/.
425
The Commission estimates that there are currently 4 ATSs1036 facilitating trades in
repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements. Furthermore, the Commission estimates that 3
Communication Protocol Systems facilitate trading in repurchase and reverse repurchase
agreements that may meet the definition of exchange under the proposed changes to Exchange
Act Rule 3b-16.1037 The Commission understands that these systems typically use U.S. Treasury
securities as collateral for trades in repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements conducted on
their systems. The Commission understands that RFQ systems for repurchase and reverse
repurchase agreements are a relatively recent and rapidly growing phenomenon.1038
Repurchase and reverse repurchase agreement transactions usually involve collateral
haircuts and counterparty risk inherent in the contract. Counterparty risk may give market
participants an incentive to maintain balances across multiple liquidity providers to reduce
exposure to a single liquidity provider. This incentive to maintain balances across multiple
liquidity providers may be alleviated, at least partially, if trades in repurchase and reverse

1036 These ATSs are Current Government Securities ATSs. See supra note 5.
1037 See, e.g., “Tradeweb Reports September 2021 Total Volume of $21.7 Trillion and
Average Daily Volume of $1.02 Trillion,” (2021). Tradeweb, available at
https://www.tradeweb.com/newsroom/media-center/news-releases/tradeweb-reportsseptember-2021-total-volume-of-$21.7-trillion-and-average-daily-volume-of-$1.02-
trillion/; CME Group. (2021, July 2). “CME Group Reports Q2 and June 2021 Monthly
Market Statistics,” CME Group, available at https://www.cmegroup.com/mediaroom/pressreleases/2021/7/02/cme_group_reportsq2andjune2021monthlymarketstatistics.html;
“MarketAxess Announces Monthly Volume Statistics for September 2021,” (2021).
MarketAxess, available at https://investor.marketaxess.com/news-releases/news-releasedetails/marketaxess-announces-monthly-volume-statistics-september-2021;
“MarketAxess 3Q21: Stat Sheet,” (2021), MarketAxess, available at
https://www.marketaxess.com/pdf/match-repo-stat-sheet.pdf; “GLMX Gains ATS and
Broker-Dealer Status,” (2018). THETRADE, available at
https://www.thetradenews.com/glmx-gains-ats-broker-dealer-status/
1038 See “Bloomberg launches electronic repo trading system,” (2005), Finextra, available at
https://www.finextra.com/newsarticle/14580/bloomberg-launches-electronic-repotrading-system.
426
repurchase agreements with liquidity providers are centrally cleared as in triparty repo trades.
1039
The interest in maintaining balances across multiple liquidity provider in bilateral transactions
has spurred the introduction and adoption of electronic RFQ platforms.
1040
Under FINRA Rule 6730(e), repurchase and reverse repurchase agreement transactions
involving TRACE-Eligible Securities are not reportable to TRACE.1041 However, repurchase
and reverse repurchase agreement holdings and transactions are currently subject to several other
reporting requirements.
1042

1039 See supra note 521 defining triparty repos.
1040 See also Trott, Tom, (2018), “Electronic RFQ Repo Markets,” Tradeweb, available at
https://www.tradeweb.com/newsroom/media-center/insights/commentary/electronic-rfqrepo-markets/ and Trott, Tom, (2018). “Electronic RFQ Repo Markets: The Solution for
Reporting Challenges and Laying the Building Blocks for Automation,” Tradeweb,
available at https://www.tradeweb.com/4a6f74/globalassets/newsroom/mediacenter/insights/commentary/repo_-tradeweb.pdf.
1041 See “6730. Transaction Reporting”, FINRA, available at https://www.finra.org/rulesguidance/rulebooks/finra-rules/6730
1042 See https://www.financialresearch.gov/briefs/files/OFRbr-2015-03-repo-sec-lending.pdf.
The Treasury’s Office of Financial Research (OFR) requires daily reporting by covered
central counterparties of centrally cleared U.S. repurchase and reverse repurchase
agreement transactions, which covers about half of the estimate U.S. market for
repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements. See 84 FR 4975 (Feb. 20, 2019)
(https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2019/02/20/2019-02639/ongoing-datacollection-of-centrally-cleared-transactions-in-the-us-repurchase-agreement-market).
OFR publishes daily aggregate data on rates and volumes of repurchase and reverse
repurchase agreement transactions in each segment, by tenor or collateral. See
https://www.financialresearch.gov/data/us-repo-data/. The Federal Reserve Bank of New
York (FRBNY) reports daily demand, utilization, rates and participants of the Federal
Reserve's Reverse Repo Facility. Primary dealers are subject to weekly reporting
requirements by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York using Form FR2004, which
describes the repurchase and reverse repurchase agreement positions, cumulative
transactions, and outstanding financial arrangements and becomes publically available a
day after reporting. FR2004 does not, however, include information on haircuts, rates,
and counterparty exposures. Non-primary dealers are not required to submit FR2004,
and consequently there is less available data on their bilateral transactions. U.S.
chartered depository institutions and bank holding companies are required to report
netted repurchase and reverse repurchase agreement positions on a quarterly basis, which
becomes publically available. Much of the publically available data from regulatory
427
The Commission is unable to determine the full scope of the role played by
Communication Protocol Systems in the market for repurchase and reverse repurchase
agreements because the Commission lacks data on the volume facilitated by these systems. The
Commission requests comment on the full role of Communication Protocol Systems in this
market.
b. Asset-Backed Securities
Asset-backed securities (ABS) are securities that are collateralized by an underlying pool
of assets, usually constructed from bundled loans such as mortgages, leases, credit card balances,
and student loans. A broad definition of asset-backed securities may include assets such as
Collateralized Bond Obligations (CBO), Collateralized Debt Obligations (CDO), Collateralized
Loan Obligations (CLO), and Non-Agency Commercial Mortgage Backed Securities (CMBS),
along with non-agency mortgage-backed securities (MBS). The majority of holders of ABS are
large institutional investors. Data from 2015 shows that asset managers are the largest holders of
ABS, making up around 60 percent of buyers, followed by hedge funds (18 percent) and banks
(10 percent).1043
The presence of large institutions in this market is also evident in looking at the
secondary market trading data. In September 2021, average daily trading volume in the ABS
market was around $8 billion. At the same time, there was only an average of 823 trades per
day, reflecting that average trade sizes in this market are very large.1044 Due to the complexity

agencies is consolidated and produced quarterly by the Federal Reserve Board in the
form of the Financial Accounts of the United States (Z.1).
1043 See https://www.greenwich.com/fixed-income-fx-cmds/understanding-us-fixed-incomemarket.
1044 See https://www.finra.org/finra-data/browse-catalog/trace-volume-reports/trace-monthlyvolume-files. We include trading data for Asset Backed Securities (“ABS”) and
Collateralized Bond Obligations (CBO), Collateralized Debt Obligations (CDO),
Collateralized Loan Obligations (CLO), and Non-Agency Commercial Mortgage Backed
428
and heterogeneity of ABS products, liquidity in this market tends to be low. The majority of
ABS never trade after issuance.1045
There is evidence that the size of the ABS market has shrunk since the 2008 financial
crisis. Not only have new issues of ABS declined sharply after the financial crisis, but overall
daily trading volume in secondary ABS markets fell by 16 percent between 2013 and 2017.1046
The Commission understands that very little ABS trading takes place on ATSs. In September
2021, less than 0.1 percent of the average daily trading volume in ABS was reported to TRACE
as having taken place on ATSs.1047 The Commission estimates that there are currently 3 ATSs
offering trading in ABS. Additionally, the Commission estimates that 1 ATS trades non-agency
MBS securities.1048
As the data mentioned above shows, 99.9 percent of ABS trading volume takes place
through trading methods other than ATSs, and some of this trading volume may take place using
protocols that qualify as Communication Protocol Systems. The Commission estimates that
there are 3 Communication Protocol Systems trading in ABS that may meet the definition of
exchange under the proposed changes to Exchange Act Rule 3b-16. As in other fixed income
markets, Communication Protocol Systems trading in ABS do not meet the current definition of
an exchange and thus are not subject to the exchange regulatory framework. The Commission

Securities (CMBS). See https://www.finra.org/finra-data/browse-catalog/trace-volumereports/about-trace-monthly-volume-reports for definitions.
1045 See Bessembinder, H., Maxwell, W. F., & Venkataraman, K. (2013). Trading activity and
transaction costs in structured credit products. Financial Analysts Journal, 69(6), 55-67.
1046 See He, A., & Mizrach, B. (2017). Analysis of securitized asset liquidity. Research Note,
FINRA Office of the Chief Economist.
1047 See https://www.finra.org/finra-data/browse-catalog/trace-volume-reports/trace-monthlyvolume-files.
1048 Note that Form ATS doesn’t have a specific category for ABS. The number of ATSs
trading in ABS is estimated from a combination of the number of ATSs that report Form
ATS-R volume for “Other Debt Securities,” which could include asset-backed securities,
and TRACE MPIDs with ABS-related volumes and ATS flags.
429
estimates that 1 Communication Protocol System trading in ABS is not currently operated by a
registered broker-dealer. This system does not currently incur the costs of registering with the
Commission as well as the costs of SRO membership, and is not subject to FINRA operational
regulatory reporting requirements.
It is likely that the vast majority of trading in ABS still takes place via bilateral voice
trading. Industry participants have pointed out that the complexity of this market makes it more
likely that traders want discussions with and access to individualized guidance from dealers and
analysts in deciding whether to trade, which can be difficult to achieve on more automated
electronic platforms.1049
Since 2011, FINRA has required FINRA members to report transaction prices and
quantities in ABS to TRACE.1050 In 2015, FINRA began publishing post-trade price information
for ABS, which is available to the public no later than 15 minutes after the trade is executed.1051
C. Economic Effects and Effects on Efficiency, Competition, and Capital
Formation

1049 See “ABS East 2014: Securitization Shrugs off Electronic Trading,” (2014). American
Banker, available at https://asreport.americanbanker.com/news/abs-east-2014-
securitization-shrugs-off-electronic-trading.
1050 See FINRA Rule 6730(a)(1) requiring FINRA members to report transactions in
TRACE-Eligible Securities, which FINRA Rule 6710 defines to include asset-backed
securities. For each transaction in asset-backed securities, a FINRA member would be
required to report the CUSIP number or similar numeric identifier or FINRA symbol;
size (volume) of the transaction; price of the transaction (or elements necessary to
calculate price); symbol indicating whether transaction is a buy or sell; date of trade
execution (“as/of” trades only); contra-party’s identifier; capacity (principal or agent);
time of execution; reporting side executing broker as “give-up” (if any); contra side
introducing broker (in case of “give-up” trade); the commission (total dollar amount), if
applicable; date of settlement; if the member is reporting a transaction that occurred on an
ATS pursuant to FINRA Rule 6732, the ATS’s separate Market Participant Identifier
(“MPID”); and trade modifiers as required. See FINRA Rule 6730(c).
1051 See https://www.finra.org/media-center/news-releases/2015/finra-brings-transparencyasset-backed-securities-market.
430
The Commission has considered the economic effects of the proposed amendments to
Exchange Act Rule 3b-16, Regulation ATS, and Regulation SCI.
The Commission recognizes that under the proposed amendments, a bank-operated
Currently Exempted Government Securities ATS or Communication Protocol System could
choose to register as an exchange rather than choose to comply with the Regulation ATS
exemption, which includes registering as a broker-dealer.
1052 A bank-operated Currently
Exempted Government Securities ATS or Communication Protocol System that chooses to
register as an exchange would be an SRO and subject to the requirements under Section 6 of the
Exchange Act.1053 The Commission preliminarily believes that registering as a national
securities exchange would enhance regulatory oversight, market surveillance, and investor
protection.1054 Registering as an exchange would also result in costs associated with applying to
register as a national securities exchange and complying with the requirements under Section
6(b) of the Exchange Act, such as the requirement to be so organized and have the capacity to
carry out the purposes of the Exchange Act and enforce member compliance with Federal
securities laws and the rules of the exchange.
1055 However, the Commission expects that many
Communication Protocol Systems would not elect to register as an exchange but instead would
register as a broker-dealer and comply with Regulation ATS because the regulatory costs

1052 As proposed, Currently Exempted Government Securities ATSs that are operated by
banks would be required to structure their business to either comply with Regulation ATS
or register as a national securities exchange. See supra note 261. The Commission also
expects Currently Exempted Government Securities ATSs currently registered as brokerdealers will continue to operate as broker-dealers under the proposal rather than register
as a national securities exchange.
1053 See supra Section II.A.
1054 See Regulation ATS Adopting Release at 70903-07 for a discussion of benefits and costs
for registering as a national securities exchange.
1055 See generally supra Section II.D.1 (discussing the national securities exchange
registration requirements under Sections 6 of the Exchange Act).
431
associated with registering and operating as an exchange would be higher than those associated
with registering as a broker-dealer and complying with Regulation ATS.1056 Similarly, the
Commission preliminarily believes that a bank-operated Currently Exempted Government
Securities ATS would also choose to structure its business to comply with the relatively lighter
regulatory requirements of Regulation ATS.
The Commission has attempted, where possible, to quantify the benefits and costs
anticipated to result from the amendments to Exchange Act Rule 3b-16, Regulation ATS, and
Regulation SCI. However, as explained in more detail below, because the Commission does not
have, and in certain cases does not believe it can reasonably obtain data to inform the
Commission on certain economic effects, the Commission is unable to quantify certain economic
effects. Further, even in cases where the Commission has some data, it might not be practicable
to perform a quantitative analysis due to the number and type of assumptions necessary to
quantify certain economic effects, which would likely render any such quantification unreliable.
Therefore, certain parts of the discussion below are qualitative in nature and focus on the
direction of the various effects of the amendments. The inability to quantify certain benefits and
costs, however, does not mean that the overall benefits and costs of the proposed amendments
are insignificant.
1. Benefits
The Commission has considered the benefits of the proposed amendments to Exchange
Act Rule 3b-16, Regulation ATS, and Regulation SCI.
a. Enhancement of Regulatory Oversight and Investor Protection
The proposed amendments to Exchange Act Rule 3b-16, which would include
Communication Protocol Systems within the definition of exchange, along with the proposed

1056 See supra Section II.B.3.
432
amendments to remove the exemption from compliance with Regulation ATS for Currently
Exempted Government Securities ATSs and apply the enhanced disclosure and filing
requirements of Rule 304 to all Government Securities ATSs would enhance regulatory
oversight and investor protection.1057
The proposed amendments would enhance regulatory oversight and investor protection
and help facilitate market surveillance by extending the broker-dealer registration requirement of
Regulation ATS to Currently Exempted Government Securities ATSs that are operated by banks
(i.e., bank-operated Currently Exempted Government Securities ATSs) and Communication
Protocol Systems that are not operated by registered broker-dealers (i.e., non-broker-dealeroperated Communication Protocol Systems).
1058 Registering as a broker-dealer would require,

1057 The proposed amendments would enhance regulatory oversight and investor protection
by requiring: non-broker-dealer-operated Communication Protocol Systems and bankoperated Currently Exempted Government Securities ATSs to register as a brokerdealers; Communication Protocol Systems and Currently Exempted Government
Securities ATSs to safeguard subscribers’ confidential trading information;
Communication Protocol Systems and Currently Exempted Government Securities ATSs
to comply with recordkeeping and reporting requirements; Communication Protocol
Systems that are not Government Securities ATSs nor NMS Stock ATSs to file Form
ATS; and Government Securities ATSs and Communication Protocol Systems that are
NMS Stock ATSs to file Form ATS-N. One commenter on the 2020 Proposal stated that
removing the exemption for Currently Exempted Government Securities ATSs would
significantly improve market transparency and resiliency, and that requirements to
provide transparency to market participants regarding key aspects of the platform, and
comply with fair access requirements would promote market integrity and help to ensure
that multilateral U.S. Treasury trading venues are subject to appropriate regulatory
oversight. See Citadel Letter at 1. Another commenter stated that the extension of
Regulation ATS to include Currently Exempted Government Securities ATSs would help
foster investor protection and market integrity. See FINRA Letter at 2.
1058 Non-broker-dealer-operated Communication Protocol Systems without a broker-dealer
affiliate would be required to register as broker-dealers with the Commission and become
members of an SRO under the proposed Rule 301(b)(1). Proposed Rule 301(b)(1) would
enhance regulatory oversight over the estimated 1 bank-operated Currently Exempted
Government Securities ATS and 9 non-broker-dealer-operated Communication Protocol
Systems (6 non-broker-dealer-operated Communication Protocol Systems without a
broker-dealer affiliate and 3 non-broker-dealer-operated Communication Protocol
Systems with a broker-dealer affiliate). See also Section VIII.C.2.a.ii for a discussion
433
among other things, the filing of Form BD and SRO membership. Such requirements would
allow the Commission and an SRO to examine bank-operated Currently Exempted Government
Securities ATSs and non-broker-dealer-operated Communication Protocol Systems for
compliance with Federal securities laws.1059 Furthermore, upon registering as broker-dealers and
becoming members of an SRO, these Currently Exempted Government Securities ATSs and
Communication Protocol Systems would be required to report certain transactions to an SRO for
public dissemination, which would help facilitate market surveillance by the SRO.1060
The magnitude of benefits from this increase in transaction transparency depends on the
portion of transactions executed by bank-operated Currently Exempted Government Securities
ATSs and non-broker-dealer-operated Communication Protocol Systems. However, these
platforms are not subject to transaction reporting obligations, and thus, the Commission cannot

about a bank-operated Currently Exempted Government Securities ATS and non-brokerdealer-operated Communication Protocol Systems with a broker-dealer affiliate adopting
a registered affiliate structure to comply with the proposed Rule 301(b)(1).
1059 The broker-dealer registration would enable the Commission to examine the trading
operations of registered broker-dealer operators and FINRA to examine its members and
markets that its members operate. See also supra Section II.D.2.
1060 FINRA Rule 6730(a)(1) would require its members to report transactions of certain
securities to FINRA. See FINRA Rule 6730(a)(1) requiring FINRA members to report
transactions in TRACE-Eligible Securities, which FINRA Rule 6710 defines to include
any debt security that is U.S. dollar-denominated and is: issued by a U.S. or foreign
private issuer, and, if a restricted security, sold pursuant to Securities Act Rule 144A;
issued or guaranteed by an Agency or a Government-Sponsored Enterprise; or a U.S.
Treasury Security. Debt securities issued by foreign sovereigns and Money Market
Instruments are explicitly excluded. Note that, under FINRA Rule 6730(e), repurchase
and reverse repurchase transactions involving TRACE-Eligible Securities are not
reportable to TRACE. See also MSRB Rule G-14 requiring brokers, dealers and
municipal securities dealers (“dealers”) to report transactions in municipal securities. See
supra note 829 describing exemptions for ATS transaction reporting to TRACE and supra
note 926 describing exemptions for transaction reporting to MSRB’s RTRS. Trades in
restricted equities effected under Securities Act Rule 144A that are transacted elsewhere
than on an exchange are required to be reported to FINRA’s OTC Reporting Facility
(ORF) if at least one of the parties to the transaction is a FINRA member. See supra note
988.
434
estimate the magnitude of this benefit because the Commission does not have data on
transactions executed by the estimated 1 bank-operated Currently Exempted Government
Securities ATS and 9 non-broker-dealer-operated Communication Protocol Systems.
1061
Furthermore, the proposed requirements with respect to safeguarding subscribers’
confidential trading information would enhance investor protection by helping to prevent
Currently Exempted Government Securities ATSs and Communication Protocol Systems from
potentially abusing such information. The requirements to establish written safeguards and
procedures to protect subscribers’ confidential trading information and to separate ATS functions
from other broker-dealer functions for Currently Exempted Government Securities ATSs and
Communication Protocol Systems would reduce the chance that a subscriber’s confidential
information is accessed or shared inappropriately.
1062 While the Commission lacks information
on the extent to which the confidential trading information of subscribers to Currently Exempted

1061 The Commission estimates that there is currently 1 non-broker-dealer-operated
Communication Protocol System trading in government and agency securities, corporate
and municipal debt securities, and ABS/MBS. The Commission also estimates that there
are 5 additional non-broker-dealer-operated Communication Protocol Systems trading in
corporate debt securities, 2 trading in restricted equities, and 1 trading in repos. One
commenter on the 2020 Proposal stated that, even if benefits from expanding Regulation
ATS to bank-operated Currently Exempted Government Securities ATSs are limited by
the Commission’s estimate that there is only one bank-operated Currently Exempted
Government Securities ATS today, the Proposal will also help maintain and promote the
integrity of the Treasuries audit trail in the future to the extent it limits the opportunity for
trades to be done on non-broker-dealer ATSs to avoid inclusion in the TRACE audit trail.
See FINRA Letter at 4.
1062 One commenter on the 2020 Proposal stated that requiring Currently Exempted
Government Securities ATSs to adopt written safeguards and written procedures to
protect subscribers’ confidential trading information and to separate ATS functions from
other broker-dealer functions can help protect the integrity of a subscriber’s confidential
trading information that could otherwise be at risk of unauthorized disclosure and subject
to potential misuse, and that such safeguards and practices also can help prevent the
sharing of confidential subscriber trading information by ATSs with other customers or
having the operator of the ATS use the confidential trading information of other
subscribers to advantage its own trading on the ATS. See MFA Letter at 3.
435
Government Securities ATSs and Communication Protocol Systems is currently accessed or
shared inappropriately,
1063 the requirements would promote the protection of confidential
information even if such information is not being inappropriately accessed or shared.
Moreover, the proposed amendment to apply the recordkeeping1064 and reporting
requirements1065 of Regulation ATS to Currently Exempted Government Securities ATSs and
Communication Protocol Systems would help improve regulatory oversight because the
requirements to keep and preserve records of customer trading interest and transactions would
create an audit trail of trading activities on these systems.1066 This information would allow the
Commission to better monitor the types of investors that trade on these systems, help the
Commission understand the role these systems play in their respective securities markets, and
improve the ability of the Commission or an SRO to detect and investigate potential irregularities
that might occur in markets in which these systems operate.
By requiring Currently Exempted Government Securities ATSs and Communication
Protocol Systems to provide certain information on Form ATS-R, such as a list of all securities
traded and all subscribers that were participants on the ATS during a reporting quarter, the
Commission would be able to better monitor the trading on ATSs and evaluate for compliance

1063 Although the Commission currently lacks this information, we describe above a potential
scenario where the confidential trading information of a subscriber could be
impermissibly shared with the personnel of the broker-dealer operator or any of its
affiliates, and the broker-dealer operator, in turn, could potentially abuse that relationship
to provide itself or its affiliates with a direct competitive advantage over that subscriber.
See supra Section VIII.B.2.a.ii.
1064 See supra Section II.D.2 for a discussion about the requirements of Rules 302 and 303.
1065 Rule 301(b)(9) would require filing of Form ATS-R.
1066 One commenter on the 2020 Proposal stated that requiring currently exempted
Government Securities ATSs to comply with the recordkeeping and reporting
requirements of Regulation ATS and requiring such ATSs to file a confidential Form
ATS-R with the Commission would improve the Commission’s ability to monitor
currently exempted Government Securities ATSs and improve its oversight of the market
for government securities execution services overall. See MFA Letter 3.
436
with the Federal securities laws including Fair Access Rule and Regulation SCI, if applicable.
The information collected on Form ATS-R regarding fair access grants, denials, and limitations
of access to ATSs along with the proposed amendment to ask the ATS to indicate whether it was
subject to the Fair Access Rule during any portion of the period covered by the report would help
the Commission oversee those ATSs to evaluate for compliance with the Fair Access Rule.
Furthermore, requiring information with respect to repurchase and reverse repurchase
transactions on Form ATS-R would help the Commission identify and monitor important ATSs
in the market for repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements.
The proposed amendments to require Government Securities ATSs1067 and
Communication Protocol Systems that are NMS Stock ATSs1068 to file Form ATS-N would help
facilitate the Commission’s regulatory oversight and enhance investor protection. Under the
proposed amendments, Current Government Securities ATSs would file Form ATS-N in lieu of
Form ATS for their government securities trading operations. In addition, under the proposed
amendments, Currently Exempted Government Securities ATSs and Communication Protocol
Systems that are either Government Securities ATSs or NMS Stock ATSs would be required to
file Form ATS-N. Information reported on Form ATS-N would provide the Commission with
increased and better quality information on Current Government Securities ATSs and improve
the effectiveness and efficiency of the examination process of Government Securities ATSs and
Communication Protocol Systems that are NMS Stock ATSs by facilitating the Commission and
the ATS SRO’s ability to better examine for compliance with the Federal securities laws.

1067 Government Securities ATSs would include Currently Exempted Government Securities
ATSs, Current Government Securities ATSs, and Communication Protocol Systems that
trade government securities.
1068 The filing of Form ATS-N would be a new requirement for Government Securities ATSs.
Currently, NMS Stock ATSs are required to file Form ATS-N. See NMS Stock ATS
Adopting Release, supra note 2.
437
Furthermore, the Commission’s review process to declare Form ATS-N ineffective that is
set forth in the proposed amendments would help ensure the quality of information disclosed in
Form ATS-N. One commenter on the 2020 Proposal stated that market participants are
incentivized to make disclosures that are robust, readable and sufficient because of the
competitive forces and the variety of regulatory tools the Commission and other regulators have
at their disposal to police the quality and content of statements made on the previously proposed
Form ATS-G.1069 While competitive forces would likely incentivize Government Securities
ATSs to make robust, readable and sufficient disclosures, the Commission preliminarily believes
that extending the ability for the Commission to be able to declare a Government Securities
ATS’s Form ATS-N or Form ATS-N amendment ineffective would improve the quality of
information disclosed by these ATSs as compared to the information currently filed on Form
ATS by Current Government Securities ATSs, which is not subject to the Commission’s review
and effectiveness process. The Commission’s recent experience with Form ATS-N for NMS
Stock ATSs informs this belief. Since February 2019, the Commission has reviewed initial Form
ATS-N filings and amendments thereto and engaged in direct conversation with all NMS Stock
ATSs about their Form ATS-N filings. The Commission believes that this review process has
helped ensure that such disclosures are complete and comprehensible. Many NMS Stock ATSs
have opted to seek the Commission staff’s input about pending material amendments prior to
filing, which has contributed to clearer and more effective disclosures. When new NMS Stock
ATSs seek to begin operations, the initial Form ATS-N provides the Commission with detailed
information about how the ATS will operate. With this knowledge, the Commission is better
able to monitor for compliance and evaluate how NMS Stock ATSs as a group are evolving.
Requiring Communication Protocol Systems that are not NMS Stock ATSs nor Government

1069 See SIFMA Letter at 4.
438
Securities ATSs to file confidential Form ATS would improve the Commission oversight of
those Communication Protocol Systems and promote investor protection. The information
regarding the manner of operation, the procedures governing execution, reporting, clearance, and
settlement of transactions, types of securities traded, and subscriber information disclosed in
Form ATS would help the Commission monitor securities markets for which Communication
Protocol Systems provide trading services, and oversee the compliance with Federal securities
laws. These benefits from requiring Form ATS, while similar in kind, would be smaller in
magnitude compared to the benefits from requiring Form ATS-N because of the differences
between the information disclosed in Form ATS and Form ATS-N.1070
b. Reduction of Trading Costs and Improvements to Execution Quality
The proposed amendments would help enhance operational transparency, reduce trading
costs, and improve execution quality for market participants1071 by requiring public disclosure of
Form ATS-N and applying the Fair Access Rule to certain ATSs. The public disclosure of Form
ATS-N for Government Securities ATSs and Communication Protocol Systems that trade NMS
stocks would also help enhance operational transparency, and thus, reduce search costs and
trading costs for market participants.1072 The reduced search costs and trading costs would result

1070 Form ATS-N requires detailed disclosure about the manner of operations of ATSs,
including display, execution and priority procedures, order segmentation, counterparty
selection, fair access, eligibility of services, fees, and suspension of trading. See NMS
Stock ATS Adopting Release, supra note 2.
1071 Market participants would include prospective subscribers of Government Securities
ATSs and Communication Protocol Systems that trade NMS stocks. For example,
prospective subscribers would benefit from the public disclosure of Form ATS-N in their
selection of trading venues.
1072 One commenter on the 2020 Proposal stated that it agrees with the Commission that the
proposed public disclosure of the operational aspects of Government Securities ATSs
could improve investors’ ability to select trading venues and lower trading costs. See
FINRA Letter at 2. Another commenter stated that increasing accessibility to and
standardizing information regarding the operations and activities of fixed income trading
venues benefits investors by helping them make more informed decisions about where to
439
in better execution quality for market participants. Specifically, based on Commission staff’s
experience with its review of initial Form ATS-N filings for NMS Stock ATSs, Form ATS-N
would result in more standardized public information about Government Securities ATSs and
Communication Protocol Systems that trade NMS stocks including how trading interests are
handled, fee structures, the ATS’s interaction with related markets, liquidity providers, activities
the ATS undertakes to surveil and monitor its market, and any potential conflicts of interest that
might arise from the activities of the broker-dealer operator or its affiliates. As a result, search
costs for market participants would be lower because consistent disclosure requirements for all
Government Securities ATSs and NMS Stock ATSs, including Communication Protocol
Systems, would facilitate market participants’ comparison of Government Securities ATSs and
NMS Stock ATSs when deciding which venue best suits their trading objectives. In addition,
based on the Commission’s experience, fees can be a primary factor for market participants in
deciding where to send their orders.1073 Fee disclosures on Form ATS-N and requiring
consistent and timely fee amendments on Form ATS-N would help market participants compare
and analyze the fee structures and fee ranges across Government Securities ATSs and NMS
Stock ATSs in an expedited manner and decide which ATS offers them the best pricing
according to the characteristics of their order flow and the type of participant they are, which
would lower their search costs and hence trading costs.

send their orders. See MFA Letter at 9. A third commenter stated that more operational
transparency would aid investors in conducting analysis of executions, and that
transparency regarding pricing, market activity and market quality promotes healthy
competition in the market place, supports fair and equitable access to potential
participants and offers investor protection. See SIFMA Letter at 1 and 2.
1073 As discussed above, market participants may select trading venues based on factors other
than fees. For example, investors interested in effecting transactions in U.S. Treasury
Securities and corporate debt securities simultaneously may find information regarding a
trading venue’s interaction with related markets on Form ATS-N useful in the selection
of trading venue.
440
Furthermore, the proposed requirement that Government Securities ATSs1074 and
Communication Protocol Systems that trade NMS stocks file Form ATS-N subject to the
Commission’s review and effectiveness process would help ensure the quality of information
disclosed in Form ATS-N with attendant benefits to market participants who utilize Form ATSN, including helping market participants select a trading venue that best suits their trading
objectives.1075
With regard to the Commission’s proposal to require Government Securities ATSs and
NMS Stock ATSs to file fee amendments with respect to fee changes, under the current filing
requirements of Form ATS-N, there could be a considerable lapse of time from the actual fee
change to the public disclosure of the fee change on Form ATS-N if an NMS Stock ATS files a
fee change as an updating amendment.1076 If there is such delay in the public disclosure of fee
changes on Form ATS-N, requiring NMS Stock ATSs to file a fee amendment no later than the
date it makes a change to a fee or fee disclosure would result in more timely public disclosure of
fee changes for NMS Stock ATSs. Because the fee is an important factors in the selection of
trading venues, the proposed fee amendment on Form ATS-N would allow market participants to
use more up-to-date fee information in the selection of trading venues, which could lower trading
costs for market participants.

1074 Government Securities ATSs would include Currently Exempted Government Securities
ATSs, Current Government Securities ATSs, and Communication Protocol Systems that
trade government securities.
1075 For more discussion on the impact of the effective process on the quality of Form ATS-N
disclosures, see supra Section VIII.C.1.a.
1076 In the Commission staff’s experience reviewing Form ATS-N amendments, some NMS
Stock ATSs have filed updating amendments no later than 30 days from the end of the
calendar quarter in which the ATS implemented the fee change. See also supra Section
IV.A.
441
However, the Commission is unable to quantify these benefits to market participants
because the Commission lacks data on the amount of information that is currently available to
different market participants regarding the operations of Government Securities ATSs and
Communication Protocol Systems that are NMS Stock ATSs operations and the activities of their
broker-dealer operators and their affiliates. The magnitude of the anticipated benefits discussed
above would also depend on a number of factors, including the extent to which market
participants would change their behavior as a result of receiving the public disclosure of more
comprehensive, comparable, and uniform information of this type in Form ATS-N. It is
inherently difficult to predict how different market participants would use the information
contained in Form ATS-N in evaluating and choosing the Government Securities ATSs and
NMS Stock ATSs that best serve their trading objectives.
The Commission believes that applying the Fair Access Rule to Government Securities
ATSs, which would require the establishment and objective application of fair access standards,
would increase trading venue options available to market participants who are currently
excluded. To the extent that there are market participants that wish to trade on significant
Government Securities ATSs but are currently excluded from doing so, applying the Fair Access
Rule to Government Securities ATSs would lower their trading costs.
1077 As discussed in

1077 The Commission estimates 8 Government Securities ATSs would be subject to the Fair
Access Rule. One commenter on the 2020 Proposal stated that registered investment
companies generally are not able to directly access liquidity on most Treasury interdealer
platforms. See ICI Letter at 4. Other commenters stated that applying the Fair Access
Rule to Government Securities ATSs would ensure that market participants are not
unreasonably denied access from important sources of liquidity for a particular security
(see SIFMA Letter at 5) and would ensure that qualified market participants have access
to the U.S. Government Securities market (see FIA PTG Letter at 2). Another
commenter stated that including the trading of U.S. Treasury Securities and Agency
Securities in the Fair Access Rule can prevent discriminatory actions that would
otherwise result in higher trading costs for investors and the reduction in trading
efficiency. See MFA Letter at 4.
442
Section VIII.B.2.a.ii, market forces alone may not be sufficient to prevent a significant
Government Securities ATS from unreasonably denying access to some market participants.1078
Under the proposed amendments, if a Government Securities ATS meets certain aggregate
volume thresholds,1079 the ATS would be required to establish and apply reasonable written
standards for granting, limiting, and denying access to subscribers and applicants.
1080 As a
result, for example, there would be a mechanism to prevent a Government Securities ATS that
met the aggregate volume thresholds1081 from unreasonably denying access to one institutional
investor while granting access to another similarly-situated institutional investor.
1082
Significant ATSs that trade NMS stocks, non-NMS stock equity securities, corporate debt
securities, or municipal securities are subject to the Fair Access Rule of Regulation ATS.1083

1078 See also supra note 833 and accompanying text.
1079 The proposed Fair Access threshold for U.S. Treasury Securities is 3 percent or more of
the average weekly dollar volume traded in the United States. The proposed Fair Access
threshold for Agency Securities is 5 percent or more of the average daily dollar volume
traded in the United States. The Fair Access threshold for NMS stocks and equity
securities are 5 percent or more of the average daily share volume in an individual
security. The Fair Access threshold for corporate debt and municipal securities is 5
percent or more of the average daily dollar volume. See supra Section III.B.4 for a
discussion about the volume thresholds for government securities in applying the Fair
Access Rule. See also supra Section V.A.2 for a discussion about the aggregation of
volume threshold.
1080 See supra Section V.A.3.
1081 See supra Section III.B.4 for discussion about volume thresholds.
1082 One commenter on the 2020 Proposal stated that applying fair access requirements to
Government Securities ATSs would enhance the ability of funds to onboard and
participate on these platforms directly, and that the fair access to these additional pools of
liquidity would benefit fund shareholders. See ICI Letter at 4.
1083 The Commission estimates 2 Communication Protocol Systems that trade corporate debt
securities and 1 Communication Protocol System that trades municipal securities would
be subject to the Fair Access Rule. Furthermore, the Commission estimates that 3
Communication Protocol Systems that trade non-NMS stock equity securities would be
subject to the Fair Access Rule, but that no Communication Protocol System and no
passive system that trades NMS stocks would be subject to the Fair Access Rule.
443
However, Communication Protocol Systems and passive systems that trade NMS stocks are
currently not subject to the Fair Access Rule, but would be under the proposed amendments.1084
Applying the Fair Access Rule to those significant Communication Protocol Systems would
generate the benefits discussed above for market participants in the markets for corporate debt
securities, municipal securities, and non-NMS stocks. Additionally, the proposed amendments
would help ensure that the benefits of the Fair Access Rule would also apply if a Communication
Protocol System or passive system reached significant size and met the aggregate volume
thresholds in the future.
To the extent that there are market participants currently excluded from trading on
significant ATSs, the proposed amendments to aggregate volume across affiliated ATSs in
calculating certain volume thresholds under the Fair Access Rule would increase the number of
smaller affiliate ATSs available to market participants who are currently excluded, which would
lower their trading costs for them. The proposed amendments to apply certain aggregate volume
thresholds would increase the number of smaller affiliate ATSs that would be subject to the Fair
Access Rule. Smaller affiliate ATSs that would not have met the current volume thresholds
individually would be subject to the Fair Access Rule if they meet the proposed aggregate
volume thresholds. The Commission estimates that no current smaller affiliate ATS that trades
NMS stocks, non-NMS stock equity securities, corporate debt securities, or municipal securities
and does not already currently meet the Fair Access volume thresholds would meet the volume
thresholds if volume is aggregated across affiliated ATSs.
1085

1084 Communication Protocol Systems would be subject to Rule 3b-16 and Regulation ATS.
See supra Section II.D. The exemption for passive systems under Rule 301(b)(5)(iii) of
Regulation ATS would be removed. See supra Section V.A.5.
1085 This estimate is computed using the regulatory version of FINRA’s Trade Reporting
Facility data and NYSE’s TAQ data (accessed via WRDS). See supra note 1079 for
details on the Fair Access thresholds. See supra note 310 for the application of the Fair
444
c. Enhancement of Price Discovery and Liquidity
Applying broker-dealer registration requirements of Regulation ATS, Regulation SCI,
and the Capacity, Integrity, and Security Rule (i.e., Rule 301(b)(6) of Regulation ATS) under the
proposed amendments would help enhance the price discovery process and liquidity in securities
markets.1086
The proposed broker-dealer registration requirements of Regulation ATS, including SRO
membership requirements, for bank-operated Currently Exempted Government Securities ATSs
and non-broker-dealer-operated Communication Protocol Systems would enhance the price
discovery process in securities markets. As discussed in Section II.B.3, upon registering as
broker-dealers and becoming members of an SRO, bank-operated Currently Exempted
Government Securities ATSs and non-broker-dealer-operated Communication Protocol Systems
would be required to report certain transactions to an SRO for public dissemination, which
would help enhance price discovery by providing the market with better post-trade price
transparency in the government securities market and other securities markets in which the
Communication Protocol Systems provide trading services.1087

Access Rule on the trading of NMS stocks, non-NMS stock equity securities, municipal
securities, and corporate debt securities. See also supra Section V.A.2 for a discussion
about the aggregation of volume threshold.
1086 The proposed amendments would help enhance the price discovery process and liquidity
in securities markets through: applying the broker-dealer registration requirements of
Regulation ATS to bank-operated Currently Exempted Government Securities ATSs and
non-broker-dealer-operated Communication Protocol Systems; applying Regulation SCI
to Government Securities ATSs that meet certain volume thresholds; applying Rule
301(b)(6) to significant Communication Protocol Systems that trade corporate debt
securities or municipal securities; and applying Regulation SCI to significant
Communication Protocol Systems that trade NMS stocks and non-NMS stock equity
securities.
1087 FINRA members are subject to transaction reporting obligation under FINRA Rule 6730,
while municipal bond dealers are subject to transaction reporting obligations under
MSRB Rule G-14. See supra note 1060, discussing transaction reporting requirements
for fixed income securities and supra note 1061, describing the non-broker-dealer-
445
The Commission believes that applying the proposed requirements of Regulation SCI to
Government Securities ATSs that meet certain volume thresholds would help prevent systems
issues from occurring and reduce their severity when they do occur, and thus, limit interruptions
to the price discovery process and liquidity flow in the government securities market.1088 As
discussed in Section VIII.B.2.a.ii, market forces alone may not be sufficient to induce significant
Government Securities ATSs to establish standards that would help significantly reduce systems
issues.1089 A systems outage at a significant Government Securities ATS would not only disrupt

operated Communication Protocol Systems that are not currently subject to reporting
requirements. As discussed in supra Section VIII.C.1.a, the Commission is unable to
estimate the magnitude of this benefit because the Commission lacks the necessary data.
Except for government securities, reported transactions in all other TRACE-Eligible
Securities (which includes Agency securities, corporate debt securities, and ABS) are
publically disseminated via FINRA TRACE. FINRA disseminates weekly summary of
U.S. Treasury Securities transactions produced from TRACE data. See FINRA Rule
6740. Reported transactions in municipal debt securities are publicly disseminated via
EMMA, which is a service operated by the MSRB. See supra note 658. Trades in
restricted equity securities effected pursuant to Rule 144A are reported to the FINRA’s
ORF for regulatory purposes only and are not publicly disseminated.
1088 The Commission estimates that 4 Government Securities ATSs would be subject to
Regulation SCI. See Table VIII.1 in supra Section VIII.B.2.a.i and Section VIII.B.2.d.
See Sections VIII.B.2.a and VIII.B.2.b for discussions about the importance of real-time
price information on Government Securities ATS and indicative quotes on
Communication Protocol Systems that trade U.S. Treasury Securities in price discovery
of various securities. The proposed amendments to Regulation SCI would promote the
establishment of more robust systems that are less likely to experience a system
disruption by requiring Government Securities ATSs that meet the definition of SCI
entity to establish and enforce written policies and procedures to ensure that their SCI
systems have adequate levels of capacity, integrity, resiliency, availability, and security
to maintain the SCI entity’s operational capability. Furthermore, the extension of
Regulation SCI would help strengthen the infrastructure and improve the resiliency of the
automated systems of Government Securities ATSs that are important to the government
securities markets. See also Section III.C.
1089 See also supra note 838 and accompanying text.
446
price discovery1090 and liquidity flow, but also would reduce trading venue options resulting in
higher trading costs for market participants.
The Commission recognizes that one Government Securities ATS is operated by a
broker-dealer operator of an NMS Stock ATS that is a SCI entity, and therefore, might already
have modified some of the policies and procedures of Regulation SCI as needed for systems
related to trading of U.S. Treasury Securities and Agency Securities.1091 However, imposing the
requirements of Regulation SCI on this ATS’s systems related to trading of U.S. Treasury
Securities and Agency Securities would further strengthen these policies and procedures, which
would help improve the robustness of SCI systems and SCI indirect systems.
Furthermore, extending Regulation SCI to significant Government Securities ATSs
would help prevent disruptions in trading of linked fixed income securities, such as corporate
debt securities, and thus, enhance the price discovery process and liquidity in those fixed income
securities markets. U.S. Treasury Securities are used as a hedging instrument for hedging
interest rate risk. The Commission understands that investors trading corporate debt securities
simultaneously trade U.S. Treasury Securities in the direction that offsets the interest rate risk
from the corporate debt securities trades. Systems issues at significant Government Securities
ATSs would disrupt these hedging activities that use U.S. Treasury Securities, which in turn,
would disrupt and the price discovery process and liquidity flow in corporate debt securities.
One commenter on the 2020 Proposal stated that it did not support applying Regulation
SCI to Government Securities ATSs because trading venues for government securities are not

1090 See supra Sections VIII.B.2.a and VIII.B.2.b for discussions about the importance of realtime price information on Government Securities ATS and indicative quotes on
Communication Protocol Systems that trade U.S. Treasury Securities in price discovery
of various securities.
1091 See supra Section VIII.B.2.a.ii for a discussion of Government Securities ATSs of
existing SCI entities.
447
interconnected.1092 This commenter stated that unlike the equities markets, where linkages
among venues under Regulation NMS can cause systems issues at a single ATS with a relatively
more modest trading volume to present issues for the broader market, the government securities
market has no similar linkages among venues.1093 Other commenters on the 2020 Proposal
expressed the view that application of Regulation SCI is appropriate.1094
The Commission believes that a system outage at a significant Government Securities
ATS could disrupt trading at another significant Government Securities ATS even if these
Government Securities ATSs are not connected. For example, if a significant Government
Securities ATS is experiencing a system outage, there could be a sudden surge in message traffic
(e.g., quoting activities) and trading at other significant Government Securities ATSs. If a
sudden surge in message traffic and trading exceeds the system capacity of the Government
Securities ATS, this could result in systems issues and disrupt trading at the ATS. The
requirements of Regulation SCI, including the requirements with respect to capacity planning,
would help prevent such systems issues at significant Government Securities ATSs and enhance
the price discovery process and liquidity in the government securities market.

1092 See Tradeweb Letter at 3.
1093 See Tradeweb Letter at 3.
1094 See supra notes 357-362 and corresponding text. One commenter stated that applying
Regulation ATS and Regulation SCI to interdealer Treasury platforms is appropriate and
would promote operational transparency, fair access, and system security and resiliency
and that, given the linkage between the interdealer and the dealer-to-customer segments
of the market, these benefits in turn would help dealers and other liquidity providers
better facilitate trading with customers such as funds. See ICI Letter at 3 and 4. Other
commenters on the 2020 Proposal opposed requiring Government Securities ATSs to
comply with Regulation SCI. See supra notes 363-367 and corresponding text.
448
NMS Stock ATSs that meet certain volume thresholds are subject to the requirements of
Regulation SCI for SCI ATS.1095 Subjecting significant Communication Protocol Systems that
are NMS Stock ATSs to Regulation SCI would likely generate the benefits discussed in the
Regulation SCI Adopting Release.1096
Significant ATSs that trade corporate debt securities or municipal securities are subject to
Rule 301(b)(6).1097 The application of Rule 301(b)(6) to significant Communication Protocol
Systems that trade corporate debt securities or municipal securities would help reduce
disruptions in the price discovery process of corporate debt securities and municipal securities
due to failures or capacity issues with respect to automated systems of significant
Communication Protocol Systems, and thus, enhance the price discovery process and liquidity in
those markets.
d. Electronic Filing Requirements
With respect to the filing location and data language of the proposed disclosure
requirements for Government Securities ATSs and Communication Protocol Systems that are
NMS Stock ATSs, requiring these disclosures to be filed on Form ATS-N would benefit market
participants by improving the usability, accessibility, and reliability of the new disclosures.
Form ATS-N is filed on the EDGAR system in a structured, machine-readable XML-based data
language that is specific to Form ATS-N (“custom XML,” here “ATS-N-specific XML”).1098 By
requiring a structured data language and a publicly accessible filing location for the required

1095 The Commission estimates that no Communication Protocol System that trades NMS
stocks would be subject to Regulation SCI.
1096 See Regulation SCI Adopting Release, supra note 3.
1097 See supra Section II.D.2 for a discussion about volume threshold for Rule 301(b)(6) of
Regulation ATS. The Commission estimates that 2 Communication Protocol Systems
that trade corporate debt securities and no Communication Protocol Systems that trade
municipal securities would be subject to Rule 301(b)(6).
1098 See supra Section V.B.
449
disclosures, the Commission would allow market participants to download the disclosed
information directly into their databases and analyze the information using various tools and
applications. This would make it easier for market participants to aggregate the information and
compare multiple ATSs to help select the venue that best suits their trading objectives, thereby
potentially avoiding the cost of paying a third party data vendor to extract and structure the
disclosed information on their behalf.
The Commission believes requiring all Government Securities ATSs and Communication
Protocol Systems that are NMS Stock ATSs to submit the required disclosures in ATS-Nspecific XML will facilitate more effective and thorough review and analysis of those ATSs by
the Commission, which should yield greater insights into the operations of those ATSs and the
activities of their operators and affiliates. Additionally, Commission staff would be better able to
assemble and review a larger pool of data regarding Government Securities ATSs and
Communication Protocol Systems that are NMS Stock ATSs. Both of these outcomes would
benefit market participants by facilitating the Commission’s examination process, and thus,
would help protect investors and ensure the sufficiency of information in the market related to
Government Securities ATSs and Communication Protocol Systems that are NMS Stock ATSs.
Requiring all Government Securities ATSs to file the required disclosures on EDGAR
would benefit market participants by ensuring that the disclosures are in a centralized, publicly
accessible filing location with validation capabilities. Providing a centralized filing location
would prevent market participants from incurring additional costs to locate and retrieve
Government Securities ATS disclosures from various filing or posting locations. Similarly,
because EDGAR is a publicly accessible system, an EDGAR requirement would prevent market
participants from incurring additional costs that will arise if an operator or other party were to
place any barriers to access the Government Securities ATS disclosures (such as a website
registration requirement). Because EDGAR provides basic validation capabilities, an EDGAR
450
requirement would reduce the incidence of non-discretionary errors, thereby improving the
quality of the Government Securities ATS disclosures.
Requiring all Forms ATS and ATS-R to be filed on EDGAR would provide a centralized
filing location with validation capabilities for submitted filings, and would also increase filing
efficiencies for ATSs by removing the need to print and mail paper versions.1099 All ATSs
subject to Regulation ATS are required to file a Form ATS-R, and all ATSs that do not trade
NMS stocks or government securities (which, under the proposal, would include Communication
Protocol Systems), would file a Form ATS.
2. Costs
The Commission has considered the costs of the proposed amendments to Exchange Act
Rule 3b-16, Regulation ATS, and Regulation SCI. The aggregate compliance costs are presented
in Table VIII.7 below.
Table VIII.7: Total Implementation Costsa and Other Compliance Costsb
Number Aggregate Aggregate
Type of Entity of Entities Initial Costs Ongoing Costs
Communication Protocol
Systems (Government
Securities ATS)
4 $2.4 million
~ $6.6 millionc
$2.4 million
~ $5.1 milliond

Currently Exempted
Government Securities ATSs
7 $1.5 million
~ $3.5 millione
$1.3 million
~ $2.7 millionf
Current Government Securities
ATSs
17 $1.4 million
~ $3.5 milliong
$1.3 million
~ $2.6 millionh
Communication Protocol
Systems (NMS Stock ATS)
4 $209,000i $59,000j
Current NMS Stock ATSs 34 $77,000k $16,000l
Other Communication
Protocol Systems
14 $2 millionm $660,000n
Other Current ATSs 59 $374,000o $115,000p
Subscriber - $10,000q
Total 139 $8 million
~ $16 million
$5.9 million
~ $11 million

1099 See id.
451
a See infra note 1127.
b See id.
c See infra Table VIII.9.
d See id.
e See infra Table VIII.10.
f See id.
g See infra Table VIII.11.
h See id.
i See infra Table VIII.12.
j See id.
k See infra Table VIII.13.
l See id.
m See infra Table VIII.14.
n See id.
o See infra Table VIII.15.
p See id.
q This figure represents costs per ATS subscriber. See also infra note aa in Table VII.8.
a. Compliance Costs1100
The proposed amendments to extend Regulation ATS to Communication Protocol
Systems, Currently Exempted Government Securities ATSs, and Current Government Securities
ATSs and Regulation SCI to significant Government Securities ATSs and certain
Communication Protocol Systems would result in a number of compliance costs. The
Commission believes that compliance costs could be passed through (e.g., via higher fees) to
market participants, resulting in higher trading costs.
The requirements with respect to becoming a broker-dealer, filing Form ATS and Form
ATS-N, and complying with the Fair Access Rule of Regulation ATS and Regulation SCI under
the proposed amendments would result in compliance costs.1101 The initial and ongoing

1100 Compliance costs consist of implementation costs, which are the monetized costs of PRA
burdens and other compliance costs (non-PRA based costs).
1101 The proposed requirements would include: broker-dealer registration requirements for
non-broker-dealer-operated Communication Protocol Systems and bank-operated
Currently Exempted Government Securities ATSs; the requirements with respect to
written safeguards and procedures for subscribers’ trading information, recordkeeping,
record preservation, and Form ATS-R for Communication Protocol Systems and
452
implementation costs and other compliance costs per entity associated with these requirements
are presented in Table VIII.8.
1102 The aggregates of these compliance costs are presented in
Table VIII.9 through Table VIII.15.

Table VIII.8: Per ATS Implementation Costs and Other Compliance Costs for Each Proposed
Amendment
Rule Compliance Action Initial Costs per
Entity
Ongoing Costs
per Entity
Reg ATS, 301(b)(1) Form BD filing
Form ID filing
Other compliance costs
(non-PRA based)
$900a
$50b
$316,000c
$300d
-
$57,700e
Reg ATS, 301(b)(2) Form ATS filing $6,400f $1,500g

Currently Exempted Government Securities ATSs; the requirements of Form ATS for
Communication Protocol Systems that are not Government Securities ATSs nor NMS
Stock ATSs; the requirements with respect to capacity, integrity, and security of
automated systems for Communication Protocol Systems that trade corporate debt
securities or municipal securities; the requirements of Form ATS-N for Government
Securities ATSs and Communication Protocol Systems that are NMS Stock ATSs; the
requirements to amend Form ATS-N for NMS Stock ATSs; the requirements to amend
Form ATS and Form ATS-R and such forms be filed electronically; the requirements of
the Fair Access Rule for significant Government Securities ATSs and significant
Communication Protocol Systems; and the requirements of Regulation SCI for significant
Government Securities ATSs and significant Communication Protocol Systems.
1102 The Commission estimates the wage rate associated with PRA burden hours based on
salary information for the securities information compiled by SIFMA. The estimated
wage figure for attorneys, for example, is based on published rates for attorneys,
modified to account for a 1,800 hour work-year and multiplied by 5.35 to account for
bonuses, firm size, employee benefits, and overhead yielding an effective hourly rate for
2013 of $380 for attorneys. See Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association,
Management & Professional Earnings in the Securities Industry—2013, available at
https://www.sifma.org/resources/research/management-and-professional-earnings-in-thesecurities-industry-2013/. The 2013 professional wage rates are adjusted for an inflation
rate of 17.45 percent based on the Bureau of Labor Statistics data on Consumer Price
Index for all Urban Consumers (CPI-U) between September 2013 and September 2021.
Therefore, the current inflation adjusted effective hourly wage rates for attorneys are
estimated at $446 ($380 x 1.1745), $570 ($485 x 1.1745) for chief compliance managers,
$332 ($283 x 1.1745) for compliance managers, $305 ($260 x 1.1745) for senior systems
analysts, $328 ($279 x 1.1745) for senior marketing manager, and $75 ($64 x 1.1745) for
compliance clerks.
453
Reg ATS, 301(b)(5) Fair Access - $17,000h
Reg ATS, 301(b)(6) Capacity, Integrity, and
Security of automated
systems
- $5,000i
Reg ATS, 301(b)(9) Form ATS-R filing -
-
$6,000j
$500k
Reg ATS, 301(b)(10) Written safeguards and
procedures to protect
subscribers’ trading
information
$3,200l $1,000m
Reg ATS, 302 Recordkeeping - $3,400n
Reg ATS, 303 Record preservation - $1,100o
Reg ATS, 304 Form ATS-N filing $49,000p
$43,000q
$2,300r
$3,300s
$3,300t
-
Reg SCI Implementation costs
(PRA based)
$777,000u
$388,000v
$924,000w
$924,000x
Reg SCI Other compliance costs
(non-PRA based)
$320,000
~ $2.4 milliony
$214,000
~ $1.6 millionz
Reg SCI Subscriber costs (nonPRA based)
$10,000aa
a Compliance Manager at $332 x 2.75 hours = $914. See also supra note 787. b Compliance Manager at $332 x 0.15 hour = $50. See also supra note 790. c See infra note 1120. d Compliance Manager at $332 x 0.95 hour = $316. See also supra note 788. e See infra note 1120. f (Attorney at $446 x 13 hours) + (Compliance Clerk at $75 x 7.5 hours) = $6,366. See also supra note 759. g (Attorney at $446 x 3 hours) + (Compliance Clerk at $75 x 2 hours) = $1,489. See also supra note 760. h Attorney at $446 x 37 hours = $16,513. See also supra note 764. i Attorney at $446 x 11.25 hours = $5,021. See also supra note 766. j ((Attorney at $446 x 3 hours) + (Compliance Manager at $332 x 0.25 hour)) x 4 times = $6,114. See also supra
note 770. k ((Compliance Manager at $332 x 0.25 hour) + (Compliance Clerk at $75 x 0.5 hour)) x 4 times = $483. See also
supra note 771. l (Attorney at $446 x 7 hours) + (Compliance Clerk at $75 x 1 hour) = $3,199. See also supra note 773. m (Attorney at $446 x 2 hours) + (Compliance Clerk at $75 x 2 hours) = $1,043. See also supra note 774. n Compliance Clerk at $75 x 45 hours = $3,383. See also supra note 776. o Compliance Clerk at $75 x 15 hours = $1,128. See also supra note 777. p (Attorney at $446 x 57.1 hours) + (Chief Compliance Manager at $570 x 0.5 hour) + (Compliance Manager at
$332 x 36.05 hours) + (Sr. Systems Analyst at $305 x 33.75 hours) + (Sr. Marketing Manager at $328 x 1 hour)
+ (Compliance Clerk at $75 x 8 hours) = $48,987. See also supra note 781. q (Attorney at $446 x 44.1 hours) + (Chief Compliance Manager at $570 x 0.5 hour) + (Compliance Manager at
$332 x 36.05 hours) + (Sr. Systems Analyst at $305 x 33.75 hours) + (Sr. Marketing Manager at $328 x 1 hour)
+ (Compliance Clerk at $75 x 1 hour) = $42,659. See also supra note 782. r (Attorney at $446 x 2.5 hours) + (Compliance Manager at $332 x 1.5 hours) + (Sr. Systems Analyst at $305 x 1.5
hours) + (Compliance Clerk at $75 x 2.5 hours) = $2,260. See also supra note 783. s ((Attorney at $446 x 5.5 hours) + (Compliance Manager at $332 x 2 hours) + (Compliance Clerk at $75 x 1.9
hours)) x 5 times = $3,262. See also supra note 784. t See id. u The PRA burden hours are based on the 2018 SCI PRA Supporting Statement. The Commission estimates an
initial PRA burden for new SCI entities of 2,034.3 hours. See also supra note 794. The PRA burden hours are
monetized by applying inflation adjusted professional wage rates obtained via the methodology presented in
supra note 1102.
454
vSee id. The Commission estimates an initial PRA burden for existing SCI entities of 1,017.15 hours. See also
supra note 793. w See id. The Commission estimates an ongoing PRA burden for all SCI entities of 2,458.65 hours. See also supra
note 795. x See id. y See infra Section VIII.C.2.a.vi for discussion about non-PRA based initial compliance costs per entity. z See infra Section VIII.C.2.a.vi for discussion about non-PRA based ongoing compliance costs per entity. aa See infra Section VIII.C.2.a.vi for discussion about non-PRA based compliance costs per ATS subscriber.
Table VIII.9: Communication Protocol Systems that are Government Securities ATSs
Compliance Num. of
Entities
Aggregate Initial Costs Aggregate Ongoing Costs
Regulation
SCI
2 $2.2 million ~ $6.4 milliona $2.3 million ~ $5 millionb
BD
Registration
- - -
Fair Access 2 - $33,000c
Other 4 $209,000d $59,000e
Total 4 $2.4 million ~ $6.6 million $2.4 million ~ $5.1 million a This cost figure is obtained by the summing initial implementation costs ($777,000) and non-PRA based
compliance costs ($320,000 ~ $2.4 million) associated with Regulation SCI presented in supra Table VIII.8 for
2 Communication Protocol Systems that trade government securities.
b This cost figure is obtained by summing the ongoing implementation costs ($924,000) and non-PRA based
compliance costs ($214,000 ~ $1.6 million) associated with Regulation SCI presented in supra Table VIII.8 for
2 Communication Protocol Systems that trade government securities. c This cost figure is the ongoing implementation cost associated with Rule 301(b)(5) presented in supra Table
VIII.8 for 2 Communication Protocol Systems that trade government securities.
d This cost figure is obtained by summing the initial implementation costs associated with Rule 301(b)(10) and
304 ($49,000) presented in supra Table VIII.8 for 4 Communication Protocol Systems that trade government
securities. e This cost figure is obtained by summing the ongoing implementation costs associated with Rule 301(b)(9)
($6,000), 301(b)(10), 302, 303, and 304 ($3,300) presented in supra Table VIII.8 for 4 Communication Protocol
Systems that trade government securities.
Table VIII.10: Currently Exempted Government Securities ATSs
Compliance Num. of
Entities
Aggregate Initial Costs Aggregate Ongoing Costs
Regulation SCI 1 $1.1 million ~ $3.2 milliona $1.1 million ~ $2.5 millionb
BD
Registration
- - -
Fair Access 3 - $50,000c
Other 7 $365,000d $103,000e
Total 7 $1.5 million ~ $3.5 million $1.3 million ~ $2.7 million a This cost figure is obtained by summing the initial implementation costs ($777,000) and non-PRA based
compliance costs ($320,000 ~ $2.4 million) associated with Regulation SCI presented in supra Table VIII.8 for
1 Currently Exempted Government Securities ATS.
b This cost figure is obtained by summing the ongoing implementation costs ($924,000) and non-PRA based
compliance costs ($214,000 ~ $1.6 million) associated with Regulation SCI presented in supra Table VIII.8 for
1 Currently Exempted Government Securities ATS.
455
c This cost figure is the ongoing implementation cost associated with Rule 301(b)(5) presented in supra Table
VIII.8 for 3 Currently Exempted Government Securities ATSs.
d This cost figure is obtained by summing the initial implementation costs associated with Rule 301(b)(10) and
304 ($49,000) presented in supra Table VIII.8 for 7 Currently Exempted Government Securities ATSs. e This cost figure is obtained by summing the ongoing implementation costs associated with Rule 301(b)(9)
($6,000), 301(b)(10), 302, 303, and 304 ($3,300) presented in supra Table VIII.8 for 7 Currently Exempted
Government Securities ATSs.
Table VIII.11: Current Government Securities ATS
Compliance Num. of
Entities
Aggregate Initial Costs Aggregate Ongoing Costs
Regulation
SCI
1 $708,000 ~ 2.8 milliona $1.1 million ~ $2.5 millionb
Fair Access 3 - $50,000c
Other 17 $725,000d $64,000e
Total 17 $1.4 million ~ $3.5 million $1.3 million ~ $2.6 million a This cost figure is obtained by summing the ongoing implementation costs ($924,000) and non-PRA based
compliance costs ($214,000 ~ $1.6 million) associated with Regulation SCI presented in supra Table VIII.8 for
1 Current Government Securities ATS.
b This cost figure is obtained by summing the ongoing implementation costs ($924,000) and non-PRA based
compliance costs ($214,000 ~ $1.6 million) associated with Regulation SCI presented in supra Table VIII.8 for
1 Current Government Securities ATS. c This cost figure is the ongoing implementation cost associated with Rule 301(b)(5) presented in supra Table
VIII.8 for 3 Current Government Securities ATSs.
d This cost figure is the initial implementation cost associated with Rule 304 ($43,000) presented in supra Table
VIII.8 for 17 Current Government Securities ATSs. e This cost figure is obtained by summing the ongoing implementation costs associated with Rule 301(b)(9)
($500) and 304 ($3,300) presented in supra Table VIII.8 for 17 Current Government Securities ATSs.
Table VIII.12: Communication Protocol Systems that are NMS Stock ATSs
Compliance Num. of
Entities
Aggregate Initial
Costs
Aggregate Ongoing
Costs
Regulation SCI - - -
Fair Access - - -
BD Registration - - -
Other 4 $209,000a $59,000b
Total 4 $209,000 $59,000 a This cost figure is obtained by summing the initial implementation costs associated with Rule 301(b)(10) and
304 ($49,000) presented in supra Table VIII.8 for 4 Communication Protocol Systems that trade NMS
stocks.
b This cost figure is obtained by summing the ongoing implementation costs associated with Rule 301(b)(9),
301(b)(10), 302, 303, and 304 ($3,300) presented in supra Table VIII.8 for 4 Communication Protocol
Systems that trade NMS stocks.
Table VIII.13: Current NMS Stock ATSs
Compliance Num. of Entities Aggregate Initial Costs Aggregate Ongoing Costs
456
Regulation SCI - - -
Fair Access - - -
Other 34 $77,000a $16,000b
Total 34 $77,000 $16,000 a This cost figure is the initial implementation cost associated with Rule 304 ($2,300) presented in supra Table
VIII.8 for 34 Current NMS Stock ATSs.
b This cost figure is the ongoing implementation cost associated with Rule 301(b)(9) ($500) presented in supra
Table VIII.8 for 34 Current NMS Stock ATSs.
Table VIII.14: Other Communication Protocol Systems
Compliance Num. of Entities Aggregate Initial Costs Aggregate Ongoing Costs
Rule 301(b)(6) 2 - $10,000a
Fair Access 6 - $99,000b
BD Registration 6 $1.9 millionc $360,000d
Other 14 $133,000e $191,000f
Total 14 $2 million $660,000 a This cost figure is the ongoing implementation cost associated with Rule 301(b)(6) presented in supra Table
VIII.8 for 2 Communication Protocol Systems that trade corporate debt securities.
b This cost figure is the ongoing implementation cost associated with Rule 301(b)(5) presented in supra Table
VIII.8 for 6 Communication Protocol Systems that trade corporate debt securities or municipal securities.
c This cost figure is obtained by summing the initial implementation costs associated with Rule 301(b)(1)
presented in supra Table VIII.8 for 6 Communication Protocol Systems that trade neither government
securities nor NMS stocks.
d This cost figure is obtained by summing the ongoing implementation costs associated with Rule 301(b)(1)
presented in supra Table VIII.8 for 6 Communication Protocol Systems that trade neither government
securities nor NMS stocks.
e This cost figure is obtained by summing the initial implementation costs associated with Rule 301(b)(2) and
301(b)(10) presented in supra Table VIII.8 for 14 Communication Protocol Systems that trade neither
government securities nor NMS stocks.
fThis cost figure is obtained by summing the ongoing implementation costs associated with Rules 301(b)(2),
301(b)(9) ($6,000), 301(b)(10), 302, and 303 presented in supra Table VIII.8 for 14 Communication Protocol
Systems that trade neither government securities nor NMS stocks.
Table VIII.15: Other Current ATSs
Compliance Num. of Entities Aggregate Initial Costs Aggregate Ongoing Costs
Rule 301(b)(6) - - -
Fair Access - - -
Other 59 $374,000a $115,000b
Total 59 $374,000 $115,000 a This cost figure is the initial implementation cost associated with Rule 301(b)(2) presented in supra Table
VIII.8 for 59 Current ATSs that trade neither government securities nor NMS stocks.
b This cost figure is obtained by summing the ongoing implementation costs associated with Rule 301(b)(2)
and 301(b)(9) ($500) presented in supra Table VIII.8 for 59 Current ATSs that trade neither government
securities nor NMS stocks.

457
One commenter stated that the proposed amendments in the 2020 Proposal would require
a Legacy Government Securities ATS to separate trading activity in government securities and
repos from non-NMS stock trading activity, which could impose administrative and operational
burdens on both Government Securities ATSs and subscribers.1103 The Commission believes
that the proposed amendments do not require separating operations, and thus, Legacy
Government Securities ATSs would not incur costs associated with separating operations.1104
i. Implementation Costs1105
Currently Exempted Government Securities ATSs and Communication Protocol Systems
that would be newly subject to the requirements of Regulation ATS would incur implementation
costs associated with, among other things, written safeguards and procedures to protect
subscribers’ trading information,
1106 recordkeeping,
1107 record preservation,
1108 and Form ATSR.1109 Currently Exempted Government Securities ATSs and Communication Protocol Systems
that trade NMS stocks or government securities would incur higher implementation costs due to

1103 See ICE Bonds Letter I at 3 and 4. The commenter on the 2020 Proposal stated that this
separation requirement would result in fewer venues and higher trading costs for
subscribers to trade and hedge and concentrate trading among a few large Government
Securities ATSs because smaller Legacy Government Securities ATSs may determine to
exit due to the prohibitive costs associated with this separation requirement. This
commenter also provided a list of costs associated with separating operation. See also
supra Section III.B.1 and note 250.
1104 See supra Section III.B.I.
1105 Implementation costs are the monetized costs of PRA burdens. See also supra note 1100.
1106 See the implementation costs associated with Rule 301(b)(10) in supra Table VIII.8.
1107 See the implementation costs associated with Rule 302 in supra Table VIII.8.
1108 See the implementation costs associated with Rule 303 in supra Table VIII.8.
1109 See the implementation costs associated with Rule 301(b)(9) in supra Table VIII.8.
458
the heightened requirements of filing Form ATS-N compared to other Communication Protocol
Systems that would file Form ATS.1110
Current ATSs and Communication Protocol Systems that trade neither NMS stocks nor
government securities would incur implementation costs associated with re-filing or filing the
modernized Form ATS.1111 Current NMS Stock ATSs would incur implementation costs
associated with amending revised Form ATS-N.1112 Furthermore, all current ATSs, Currently
Exempted Government Securities ATSs, and Communication Protocol Systems would incur
implementation costs to re-file or file the revised electronic Form ATS-R.1113
Government Securities ATSs that meet certain volume thresholds would be subject to the
Fair Access Rule of Regulation ATS. The Commission estimates 3 Currently Exempted
Government Securities ATSs, 3 Current Government Securities ATSs, and 2 Communication
Protocol Systems that trade government securities would be subject to the Fair Access Rule.
These entities would incur the implementation costs per entity presented in Table VIII.8.
Significant NMS Stock ATSs and ATSs that trade corporate debt securities, municipal
securities, or non-NMS stock equity securities are subject to the Fair Access Rule. The
Commission estimates 2 Communication Protocol Systems that trade corporate debt securities, 1
Communication Protocol System that trades municipal securities, and 3 Communication Protocol

1110 See the implementation costs associated with Rule 301(b)(2) and Rule 304 in supra Table
VIII.8.
1111 The initial and ongoing implementation costs per entity associated with Rule 301(b)(2)
are approximately $6,400 and $1,500, respectively. See supra notes f and g in Table
VIII.8. See also supra Section VII.D.1.a for a discussion about the implementation costs
associated with Rule 301(b)(2).
1112 The implementation cost associated with amending revised Form ATS-N is
approximately $2,300 per entity. See supra note r in Table VII.8. See also supra Section
VII.D.3 for a discussion about the implementation costs associated with Rule 304.
1113 The implementation costs associated with filing or re-filing electronic Form ATS-R is
approximately $500 per entity. See supra note k in Table VII.8. See supra Section
VII.D.1.d for a discussion about the implementation costs associated with Rule 301(b)(9).
459
Systems that trade non-NMS stock equity securities would be subject to the Fair Access Rule.
These entities would incur the same implementation costs per entity presented in Table VIII.8.
Significant ATSs that trade corporate debt securities or municipal securities are subject to
Rule 301(b)(6). The Commission estimates that 2 Communication Protocol Systems that trade
corporate debt securities would be subject to Rule 301(b)(6) and incur the implementation costs
per entity presented in Table VIII.8.
The Commission believes that the 2018 estimates of initial PRA burdens for new SCI
entities and ongoing PRA burdens for all SCI entities under Regulation SCI are largely
applicable to Government Securities ATSs.1114 For the purpose of implementation cost
estimation, two groups of Government Securities ATSs are considered1115: Government
Securities ATSs that are existing SCI entities; and Government Securities ATSs that are entirely
new SCI entities currently not subject to Regulation SCI. For the first group (Government
Securities ATSs that are existing SCI entities), the Commission believes that such entities would
incur approximately 50 percent of the Commission’s initial PRA burden estimates for entirely
new SCI entities. Furthermore, for the second group (Government Securities ATSs that are new
SCI entities currently not subject to Regulation SCI), the Commission believes that such entities
would incur the same estimated initial PRA burdens as those estimated for new SCI entities in
the 2018 SCI PRA Supporting Statement. The Commission also believes that the same ongoing
PRA burdens for all SCI entities estimated in the 2018 SCI PRA Supporting Statement are
applicable to Government Securities ATSs in both the first and the second group.

1114 See 2018 SCI PRA Supporting Statement, supra notes 793, 794, and 795.
1115 Government Securities ATSs are divided into two groups in discussing implementation
costs because Government Securities ATSs operated by a broker-dealer operator of an
NMS Stock ATS that is a SCI entity would have lower initial implementation costs. See
also 2018 SCI PRA Supporting Statement, supra note 793.
460
The Commission estimates that 4 Government Securities ATSs would be subject to the
requirements of Regulation SCI and incur the implementation costs per entity presented in Table
VIII.8. Among the four Government Securities ATSs that satisfy the volume thresholds, the
Commission believes that one Government Securities ATS (referred as the first group above)
would incur approximately 50 percent of initial PRA burden estimates for an entirely new SCI
entity included in the 2018 SCI PRA Supporting Statement, and three Government Securities
ATSs (referred as the second group above) would incur the same estimated initial PRA burdens
as those estimated for new SCI entities included in the 2018 SCI PRA Supporting Statement. In
addition, the Commission believes that all four Government Securities ATSs would incur the
same ongoing PRA burdens as all other SCI entities included in the 2018 SCI PRA Supporting
Statement.
Significant ATSs that trade either NMS stocks or non-NMS stock equity securities are
subject to the requirements of Regulation SCI. The Commission estimates that no
Communication Protocol System that trades NMS stocks or non-NMS stock equity securities
would be subject to Regulation SCI. If a significant Communication Protocol System that trades
NMS stocks or equity securities that are not NMS stocks exists, it would incur the same range of
implementation costs per entity presented in Table VIII.8.
The estimated implementation costs for Communication Protocol Systems and Currently
Exempted Government Securities ATSs associated with Rule 301(b)(9) and (10), Rule 302, and
Rule 303 would represent a larger fraction of revenue for a small (measured in trading volume)
ATS relative to that for a large ATS. This is because these costs would be fixed costs that these
ATSs would incur regardless of the amount of trading activity that takes place on them.
Furthermore, regardless of their size and transaction volume, all Government Securities ATSs
and Communication Protocol Systems that are NMS Stock ATSs would need to ensure that their
disclosures meet the requirements of Form ATS-N and that they correctly file their Form ATS-N
461
under Rule 304. Such Government Securities ATSs and Communication Protocol Systems
might develop internal processes to ensure correct and complete reporting on Form ATS-N,
which would result in a fixed implementation cost. These implementation costs would fall
disproportionately on smaller (measured in trading volume) such Government Securities ATSs
and Communication Protocol Systems in terms of implementation costs relative to trading
volume (as opposed to larger such Government Securities ATSs and Communication Protocol
Systems in terms of implementation costs relative to trading volume), because all Government
Securities ATSs and Communication Protocol Systems that are NMS Stock ATSs would likely
incur these fixed implementation costs. However, smaller such Government Securities ATSs
and Communication Protocol Systems that are not operated by multi-service broker-dealer
operators and that generally do not engage in other brokerage or dealing activities in addition to
their ATSs would likely incur lower implementation costs because certain sections of revised
Form ATS-N would not be applicable to Government Securities ATSs and Communication
Protocol Systems that are NMS Stock ATSs.
The implementation costs associated with Rule 304 would also vary across Government
Securities ATSs and Communication Protocol Systems that are NMS Stock ATSs depending on
the complexity of the ATS and the services that it offers. For example, some such ATSs might
not segment subscriber order flow or offer counterparty selection protocols. These ATSs would
not be required to complete Part III, Items 13 and 14 of revised Form ATS-N. As a result, such
Government Securities ATSs and Communication Protocol Systems that are NMS Stock ATSs
would incur lower implementation costs because these ATSs would apply lesser burden hours to
complete their Form ATS-N.
ii. Costs Associated with Broker-dealer Requirements
Under the proposed Rule 301(b)(1), Currently Exempted Government Securities ATSs
that are banks (i.e., bank-operated Currently Exempted Government Securities ATSs) and
462
Communication Protocol Systems that are non-broker-dealers (i.e., non-broker-dealer-operated
Communication Protocol Systems) would be subject to broker-dealer registration requirements.
The Commission believes that non-broker-dealer-operated Communication Protocol
Systems without a broker-dealer affiliate would incur additional compliance costs related to
registering with the Commission as broker-dealers, becoming members of an SRO, such as
FINRA, and maintaining broker-dealer registration and SRO membership, compared to those
operated by broker-dealers and those with a broker-dealer affiliate. The initial costs would
include the costs associated with filing Form BD and Form ID, FINRA membership application
fees, and any legal or consulting costs necessary for effectively completing the application to be
a member of FINRA (e.g., ensuring compliance with FINRA rules1116 including drafting policies
and procedures as may be required). The ongoing costs would include the costs associated with
amending Form BD, and ongoing fees associated with FINRA membership and legal work
relating to FINRA membership.
The Commission recognizes that the costs associated with obtaining and maintaining
FINRA membership would vary significantly depending on entity characteristics, activities, and
the degree of the firm’s reliance on outside legal or consulting for effectively completing the
application process and maintaining FINRA membership. The initial registration costs for
FINRA membership1117 would depend on, among other things, the number of associated persons
being registered. The ongoing costs to remain a FINRA member would vary based on the scope
of brokerage activities, revenue,
1118 size (i.e., the number of registered persons and the number

1116 See supra Section II.D.2 for a discussion about FINRA rules.
1117 See https://www.finra.org/registration-exams-ce/classic-crd/fee-schedule#examfees for
the schedule of FINRA registration fees.
1118 FINRA imposes a Gross Income Assessment as follows: $1,200 on a Member Firm’s
annual gross revenue up to $1 million; a charge of 0.1215% on a Member Firm’s annual
gross revenue between $1 million and $25 million; a charge of 0.2599% on a Member
463
of branch offices), and trading volume.
1119 Thus, entities with a smaller number of registered
persons, fewer brokerage activities, smaller trading volume, and lower revenue would face lower
costs.
As outlined in Table VIII.8, the Commission estimates an initial cost of approximately
$317,000 to register as a broker-dealer with the Commission and become a member of
FINRA.1120 Additionally, the Commission estimates an ongoing annual cost of approximately
$58,000 to maintain the broker-dealer registration and FINRA membership.1121 The

Firm’s annual gross revenue between $25 million and $50 million; a charge of 0.0518%
on a Member Firm’s annual gross revenue between $50 million and $100 million; a
charge of 0.0365% on a Member Firm’s annual gross revenue between $100 million and
$5 billion; a charge of 0.0397% on a Member Firm’s annual gross revenue between $5
and $25 billion; and a charge of 0.0855% on a Member Firm’s annual gross revenue
greater than $25 billion. When a firm’s annual gross revenue exceeds $25 million, the
maximum of current year’s revenue and average of the last three years’ revenue is used
as the basis for the income assessment. See also https://www.finra.org/rulesguidance/notices/09-68.
1119 Fees for reporting trades to FINRA may depend on the types of security, the size of trade,
and the types of message (e.g., cancellation message, correction message). For example,
fees for reporting trades to FINRA TRACE as follows: $0.475/trade for trade size up to
and including $200,000 par value; $0.000002375 times the par value of the transaction
(i.e., $0.002375/$1000) for trade size over $200,000 and up to and including $999,999.99
par value; $2.375/trade for trade size of $1,000,000 par value or more; $1.50/trade for all
transactions in securitized products that are Agency Pass-Through Mortgage-Backed
Securities traded to be announced (“TBA”) or SBA-Backed ABS traded TBA (each
“TBA transaction”); $1.50/trade for cancellation or correction; and $3/trade for late
trades. See also https://www.finra.org/rules-guidance/rulebooks/finra-rules/7730.
1120 See Exchange Act Release No. 33-9974 (October 30, 2015), 80 FR 71388, 71509
(November 16, 2015) (“Regulation Crowdfunding Adopting Release”). These estimates
are adjusted for an inflation rate of 15.33 percent based on the Bureau of Labor Statistics
data on CPI-U between October 2015 and September 2021. In addition to the initial costs
to become a member of FINRA, this cost includes the initial implementation costs of
$950 for filing Form BD and Form ID tabulated in Table VIII.8. The Commission
recognizes that the cost of registering and becoming a member of a national securities
association varies significantly among brokers, depending on facts and circumstances.
The Commission estimates the range of cost to be between $57,500 and $576,500, and
thus, chose the average amount of $317,000 for purposes of this discussion.
1121 See id. See also Regulation Crowdfunding Adopting Release at 71509. In addition to the
ongoing annual costs to maintain a membership with FINRA, this cost includes the
464
Commission preliminarily believes that these costs related to broker-dealer registration and
FINRA membership are relevant to non-broker-dealer-operated Communication Protocol
Systems without a broker-dealer affiliate. However, these cost estimates are uncertain because
the Commission does not have information on the estimated 6 non-broker-dealer-operated
Communication Protocol Systems without a broker-dealer affiliate, such as the number of
associated persons of the broker entity and their licensing requirements, the scope of the
proposed brokerage activities, and the degree of reliance on outside legal or consulting expertise
necessary for effectively completing the application to be a member of FINRA. Furthermore, the
Commission is unable to provide cost estimates related to trade reporting obligations1122 because
these costs would depend on various factors, such as the number of trades and the costs of
updating systems for trade reporting requirements, for which the Commission does not have
information.
In addition to the costs associated with broker-dealer registration and FINRA
membership, a non-broker-dealer-operated Communication Protocol System without a brokerdealer affiliate could incur costs related to restructuring its business and incorporating itself or a
separate entity (i.e., an affiliate) to be registered as a broker-dealer. Such restructuring costs
would include any costs that may be associated with making necessary changes to its business
practices, fees for consulting and legal services, fees for incorporation and the amendment of its
certificate of incorporation and its bylaws, and tax consequences. Fees for incorporation and

ongoing annual implementation costs of $300 to amend Form BD tabulated in Table
VIII.8.
1122 See supra note 1119 for fees for reporting trades to FINRA. The Commission estimates
that 2 non-broker-dealer-operated Communication Protocol Systems without a brokerdealer affiliate trade restricted securities, which may be subject to FINRA transaction
reporting requirements. Thus, with respect to those restricted securities, these
Communication Protocol Systems may incur costs associated with reporting trades to
FINRA.
465
amending the certificate of incorporation and its bylaws may be minimal. For example, fees for
incorporation and amending the certificate of incorporation and its bylaws in the state of
Delaware would range approximately between $89 and $200 depending on the entity type of
incorporation.1123 However, certain restructuring costs, such as costs associated with making
changes to business practices to comply with the broker-dealer registration requirements, could
be significant. The Commission estimates that up to 6 non-broker-dealer-operated
Communication Protocol Systems without a broker-dealer affiliate could be required to
restructure their business in order to comply with the broker-dealer registration requirements.
The Commission is unable to provide estimates on certain restructuring related costs for a nonbroker-dealer-operated Communication Protocol System because the Commission does not have
information regarding the scope of its restructuring, such as the need and the extent of required
changes in current business practices, the need and the extent of consulting services, and its
choice of entity type for incorporation.
Upon becoming broker-dealers, operators of these Communication Protocol Systems
would be subject to certain broker-dealer requirements with respect to maintaining net capital,
reporting, and recordkeeping.1124 The compliance costs associated with maintaining net capital,
reporting, and recordkeeping would depend on the business structure of a broker-dealer (i.e., the
capital structure of a broker-dealer and the scope of a broker-dealer’s activities). For example,
the costs would vary significantly depending on the types of securities a broker-dealer holds, the
level of net capital a broker-dealer maintains, and whether a broker-dealer carries customer
accounts, carries for other broker-dealers, is a registered investment adviser, is affiliated with an

1123 See fee schedules for incorporation and amending the certificate of incorporation and its
bylaws in the state of Delaware at: https://corpfiles.delaware.gov/Aug09feesch.pdf.
1124 Registered Broker-dealers would be subject to requirements under the rules, such as 17
CFR 240.15c3-1, 240.17a-1, 240.17a-3, 240.17a-4, and 240.17a-5 (Rule 15c3-1, Rule
17a-1, Rule 17a-3, Rule 17a-4, and Rule 17a-5).
466
investment adviser, or transacts in principal capacity. However, to the extent that an operator of
Communication Protocol System limits its activities to trading operations and does not expand
into these other business activities, the operator would incur minimal costs with respect to net
capital, reporting, and recordkeeping requirements upon registering as a broker-dealer. The
Commission is unable to estimate the costs associated with these broker-dealer requirements
because the Commission does not have information about whether or how the current business
structures of the estimated 6 Communication Protocol Systems that are not operated by a
registered broker-dealer nor how a broker-dealer affiliate might change upon registering as a
broker-dealer.
The Commission believes that a bank-operated Currently Exempted Government
Securities ATS or a non-broker-dealer-operated Communication Protocol System would not
incur compliance costs associated with registering as a broker-dealer and becoming a member of
an SRO (e.g., FINRA) if it has a broker-dealer affiliate. It is the Commission’s understanding
that ATSs that are banks often are operated by bank affiliates that are themselves registered
broker-dealers, rather than by the banks themselves.1125 A bank-operated Currently Exempted
Government Securities ATS might adopt a similar registered affiliate structure for its
government securities trading operations. For a non-broker-dealer-operated Communication
Protocol System that is affiliated with an existing broker-dealer, it would be more cost-effective
for the Communication Protocol System to move its operations to an existing broker-dealer
affiliate rather than restructure itself to become a broker-dealer or create a new broker-dealer
entity to comply with the broker-dealer registration requirements. Thus, the Commission expects
that such non-broker-dealer-operated Communication Protocol Systems would choose the more
cost-effective way of moving its trading operations to its registered broker-dealer affiliate.

1125 See supra Section III.B.2 for a discussion about ATSs that are banks.
467
A broker-dealer affiliate that is adding ATS or Communication Protocol System
operations would incur additional ongoing costs associated with maintaining FINRA
membership if adding trading operations increases revenue, the number of registered persons or
branch offices, trading volume, or expands the scope of brokerage activities.1126 Furthermore, a
broker-dealer affiliate that is adding ATS or Communication Protocol System operations could
incur additional costs associated with maintaining adequate net capital level, reporting, and
recordkeeping depending on the changes in business structure of the broker-dealer. For the
reasons discussed above, the Commission is unable to provide estimates on these additional costs
for the estimated 1 bank-operated Currently Exempted Government Securities ATS and 2 nonbroker-operated Communication Protocol Systems that are affiliated with an existing brokerdealer.
iii. Costs Associated with Ineffectiveness Declaration
In addition to the implementation costs associated with filing and amending Form ATSN, the Commission preliminarily believes that the proposed ability for the Commission to
declare a Form ATS-N or Form ATS-N amendment ineffective could result in direct costs for
Government Securities ATSs and Communication Protocol Systems that are NMS Stock
ATSs.1127 If the Commission declares a Government Securities ATS’s or an NMS Stock ATS’s
Form ATS-N or Form ATS-N amendment ineffective, then the ATS might have to cease
operations, roll back a change in operations, or delay the start of operations until it is able to
address the deficiencies in the previously filed form.

1126 For an entity that may adopt a registered affiliate structure, it is possible that it may have
to file a Continuing Membership Application with FINRA noticing material changes to
business operations resulting from adding ATS operations. See (under material
change) https://www.finra.org/registration-exams-ce/classic-crd/fee-schedule regarding
the fees for the Continuing Membership Application with FINRA.
1127 See Rule 304(a)(1)(iv)(B).
468
An ineffective Form ATS-N could also impose indirect costs on the overall market for
government securities and NMS stock trading services resulting from a potential reduction in
competition or the removal of a sole provider of a niche service within the market.1128
However, the Commission believes that there would not be a substantial burden imposed
in connection with resubmitting Form ATS-N or a Form ATS-N amendment or from an
ineffective declaration in general.1129 Because Government Securities ATSs, Communication
Protocol Systems that are NMS Stock ATSs, and market participants would not incur these costs
unless the Commission declares a Form ATS-N or amendment ineffective, such Government
Securities ATSs and Communication Protocol Systems would be incentivized to comply with the
requirements of Form ATS-N, as well as Federal securities laws, including the other
requirements of Regulation ATS, to avoid an ineffectiveness declaration. These incentives
would encourage such Government Securities ATSs and Communication Protocol Systems to
initially submit a more accurate and complete Form ATS-N and amendments thereto, which
would reduce the likelihood that they are declared ineffective.
Additionally, Current Government Securities ATSs and Communication Protocol
Systems that are NMS Stock ATSs would not have to bear the costs of immediately ceasing
operations under the proposal without having an effective Form ATS-N on file with the
Commission because Current Government Securities ATSs would be able to continue operations
pursuant to a previously filed initial operation report on Form ATS and Currently Exempted
Government Securities ATSs and Communication Protocol Systems that trade NMS stocks

1128 See infra Section VIII.C.3.a.i.d for a discussion about the impact of a declaration of
ineffectiveness on competition in the market for government securities and repo trading
services.
1129 One commenter on the 2020 Proposal stated that the use of the same initial filing,
amendment review, and effectiveness process for the previously proposed Form ATS-G
as is currently in place for the Form ATS-N should reduce compliance burdens for
market participants and reduce potential market confusion. See Tradeweb Letter at 10.
469
would also be able to continue operations pending the Commission’s review of their initial Form
ATS-N. However, if after notice and opportunity for hearing, the Commission declares an initial
Form ATS-N filed by a Current Government Securities ATS, Currently Exempted Government
Securities ATS, or Communication Protocol System ineffective, the ATS would be required to
cease operations until an initial Form ATS-N is effective.
One commenter stated that the Commission’s imposition of an “effectiveness” regime to
previously proposed Form ATS-G under the 2020 proposal is an unnecessary administrative
burden on Government Securities ATSs, and will be particularly burdensome on those
Government Securities ATSs with limited volumes in government securities.1130 The
implementation costs associated with the requirements of Form ATS-N, including the costs for
developing internal processes to ensure correct and complete reporting on Form ATS-N to avoid
an ineffectiveness declaration, would be fixed costs, and thus, would represent a larger fraction
of revenue for a small (measured in trading volume) ATS relative to that for a large ATS.
However, the Commission preliminarily believes that this adverse effect on small ATSs would
be mitigated to some extent, because, as discussed in Section VIII.C.2.a.i, the Commission
believes that certain smaller Government Securities ATSs and Communication Protocol Systems
that trade NMS stocks would likely incur lower implementation costs.1131
iv. Costs Associated with the Fair Access Rule

1130 See ICE Bonds Letter I at 5.
1131 Smaller Government Securities ATSs and Communication Protocol Systems that trade
NMS stocks that are not operated by multi-service broker-dealer operators and that
generally do not engage in other brokerage or dealing activities in addition to their ATSs
would likely incur lower implementation costs because certain sections of revised Form
ATS-N would not be applicable to these ATSs. Furthermore, smaller such Government
Securities ATSs and Communication Protocol Systems that operate simpler systems
would likely incur lower implementation costs associated with the requirements of Form
ATS-N because certain sections of revised Form ATS-N would not be applicable to these
ATSs.
470
The Commission preliminarily believes that applying the Fair Access Rule could impose
compliance costs (non-PRA based) on Government Securities ATSs, Communication Protocol
Systems that trade NMS stocks, non-NMS stock equity securities, corporate debt securities, or
municipal securities, and passive systems that trade NMS stocks. Under the proposal,
Government Securities ATSs, Communication Protocol Systems that trade NMS stocks, nonNMS stock equity securities, corporate debt securities, or municipal securities, and passive
systems that trade NMS stocks that meet the specified aggregate volume thresholds could no
longer treat subscribers differently with respect to access to the services of the ATS without a
reasonable basis. For example, an ATS could not offer one class of subscriber a service (e.g., an
order interaction procedure, order type, trading protocol, or connectivity method) without
offering the service to all subscribers unless the ATS had a reasonable basis for the differential
treatment. In addition, an ATS could not charge fees that unreasonably prohibit certain market
participants from accessing the services of the ATS.1132 If ATSs must change fee structures,
order interaction procedures, trading protocols, or access provisions and adapt their operating
model due to the Fair Access Rule, those ATSs would incur costs related to changing business
operations.
The Commission, however, is unable to quantify the potential compliance costs discussed
above. In particular, the Commission lacks data on the extent to which Communication Protocol
Systems that trade NMS stocks, non-NMS stock equity securities, corporate debt securities, or
municipal securities, passive systems that trade NMS stocks, and Government Securities ATSs
that meet the aggregate volume thresholds currently grant access to the ATS services to all
subscribers on the same terms, and on the specific types of services and subscribers in question.

1132 See supra Section V.A.3 for a discussion about reasonableness and fees under the
proposed amendments to the Fair Access Rule.
471
In addition, the Commission lacks similar data for other trading venues in the government
securities, corporate debt securities, and municipal securities market, which might offer
differential access to services. Thus, the Commission is not able to estimate the costs associated
with changing fee structures and adapting operating models.
Significant ATSs that trade NMS stocks, non-NMS stock equity securities, corporate debt
securities, or municipal securities are subject to the Fair Access Rule. The proposed
amendments to aggregate volume across affiliated ATSs in calculating certain volume thresholds
could increase the number of smaller affiliate ATSs that would be subject to the Fair Access
Rule. Smaller affiliate ATSs that would not have met the current volume thresholds individually
would be subject to the Fair Access Rule if they meet the proposed aggregate volume thresholds.
As discussed above, if ATSs must adapt their operating models as a result of being subject to the
Fair Access Rule, those ATSs would incur costs related to changing business operations. The
Commission estimates that no current smaller affiliate ATS that trades NMS stocks, non-NMS
stock equity securities, corporate debt securities, or municipal securities and does not already
currently meet the Fair Access volume thresholds would meet the volume thresholds1133 and be
subject to the Fair Access Rule if volume is aggregated across affiliated ATSs.
1134
v. Costs Associated with Rule 301(b)(6)
In addition to the implementation costs associated with reporting outages and
recordkeeping under the proposed Rule 301(b)(6), the Commission preliminarily believes that
significant Communication Protocol Systems that trade corporate debt securities or municipal

1133 See supra note 1079 for details on the Fair Access thresholds. See supra note 310 for the
application of the Fair Access Rule on the trading of NMS stocks, non-NMS stock equity
securities, municipal securities, and corporate debt securities. See also supra Section
V.A.2 for a discussion about the aggregation of volume threshold.
1134 See supra note 1085.
472
securities could incur compliance costs (non-PRA based) to ensure adequate capacity, integrity,
and security with respect to those systems that support order entry, order routing, order
execution, transaction reporting, and trade comparison.1135 To the extent that these significant
Communication Protocol Systems currently do not meet certain standards under the proposed
Rule 301(b)(6), they would incur compliance costs associated with, among other things, capacity
planning, and conducting periodic capacity stress tests of critical systems that process
transactions.1136 For example, a Communication Protocol System would incur the costs
associated with upgrading systems (e.g., investing in computer hardware and software) if its
critical systems that process transactions do not have adequate capacity. In addition, significant
Communication Protocol Systems would incur costs associated with the independent review of
their systems on an annual basis.
The Commission believes that the compliance costs for one of these significant
Communication Protocol Systems would depend on the extent to which its existing policies with
respect to maintaining adequate capacity, integrity, and security of systems that support order
entry, order routing, order execution, transaction reporting, and trade comparison already comply
with the standards under the proposed Rule 301(b)(6). The Commission is unable to estimate
these compliance costs because it lacks information on the existing policies for maintaining
adequate capacity, integrity, and security of such systems for significant Communication
Protocol Systems that trade corporate debt securities or municipal securities.
1137 However, the

1135 The Commission estimates that 2 Communication Protocol Systems that trade corporate
debt securities or municipal securities would exceed the thresholds under the proposed
Rule 301(b)(6). See supra Section VIII.C.2.a.i.
1136 See supra note 157.
1137 See supra note 888 (discussing commenter statements on the extent to which fixed
incomes systems already comply with the provisions of Rule 301(b)(6)).
473
Commission believes that compliance costs associated with Rule 301(b)(6) would be
significantly less than those of Regulation SCI because the scope and requirements of Rule
301(b)(6) would be narrower than those of Regulation SCI.1138
vi. Costs Associated with Regulation SCI
Government Securities ATSs that meet certain volume thresholds would incur
compliance costs (non-PRA based costs) as SCI entities.1139 The Regulation SCI Adopting
Release in 2014 estimated that an SCI entity would incur an initial cost of between
approximately $320,000 and $2.4 million. Additionally, an SCI entity would incur an ongoing
annual cost of between approximately $214,000 and $1.6 million. The Commission believes that
these compliance costs are largely applicable to Government Securities ATSs.
One commenter on the 2020 Proposal stated that Regulation SCI imposes a specific
manner in which SCI Entities must organize their asset inventories, and that redesigning and
implementing new asset inventories to comply with Regulation SCI would require significant
investment and would impose material upfront compliance costs that may divert resources rather
than encourage meaningful investment.1140 Although Regulation SCI would require SCI Entities
to identify systems based on their functionality, as discussed above, the Commission believes

1138 For example, Rule 301(b)(6) would apply to a narrower set of systems, as compared to
Regulation SCI: Rule 301(b)(6) of Regulation ATS applies only to systems that support
order entry, order routing, order execution, transaction reporting, and trade comparison,
which is narrower than the definition of SCI system. Furthermore, Rule 301(b)(6) would
not require significant Communication Protocol Systems that trade corporate debt
securities or municipal securities to maintain a geographically diverse backup facility.
1139 While NMS Stock ATSs that meet certain volume thresholds are also subject to
Regulation SCI, the Commission estimates that no Communication Protocol Systems that
trade NMS stocks would be subject to Regulation SCI. The Commission preliminarily
believes that a Communication Protocol System that trades NMS stocks would incur the
same implementation costs and other compliance costs (non-PRA based), including
ATS’s participant costs, in the same range as those presented in Table VIII.8.
1140 See BrokerTec Letter at 7.
474
that Regulation SCI is designed to provide flexibility in applying industry standards to establish
policies and procedures.1141 This flexibility may not require SCI Entities to redesign their
systems to comply with Regulation SCI. However, to the extent that an SCI Entity would be
required to redesign its systems, the Commission believes that the costs would be included in the
compliance costs associated with Regulation SCI discussed above.1142
However, the Commission is uncertain about the actual level of costs Government
Securities ATSs would incur because these costs might differ from the types of SCI entities
considered in the Regulation SCI Adopting Release, which did not include fixed income
ATSs.1143 The Commission is also uncertain about the actual level of costs Government
Securities ATSs would incur because the actual costs might differ based on various factors, such
as complexity of SCI entities’ systems and the degree to which SCI entities employ third-party
systems. The Commission believes that Government Securities ATSs with relatively simpler
systems would incur lower compliance costs compared to those with more complex systems.1144
Also, any SCI systems operated by a third-party on behalf of an SCI entity would be subject to
the requirements of Regulation SCI. The Commission believes that Government Securities
ATSs with higher dependency on SCI systems operated by third-party vendors might incur
higher compliance costs compared to those with lower dependency on third-party systems.1145

1141 See supra note 374 and accompanying text.
1142 See supra Table VIII.8 for the compliance costs associated with Regulation SCI.
1143 See Regulation SCI Adopting Release, supra note 3. In the Regulation SCI Adopting
Release, fixed income ATSs are excluded from the regulation.
1144 See id. The Regulation SCI Adopting Release explains that compliance costs would
depend on the complexity of SCI entities’ systems and they would be higher for SCI
entities with more complex systems.
1145 See id. The Regulation SCI Adopting Release discusses that compliance costs could in
part depend on the extent to which an SCI entity uses third-party systems because
ensuring compliance of systems operated by a third-party with Regulation SCI may be
more costly than ensuring compliance of internal systems with Regulation SCI.
475
In addition, the Commission believes that some Government Securities ATSs’
participants required to participate in the testing of business continuity and disaster recovery
plans would incur Regulation SCI-related connectivity costs of approximately $10,000
apiece.1146 If larger members or participants of SCI Government Securities ATSs already
maintain connections to backup facilities including for testing purposes, the compliance costs
associated with the business continuity and disaster recovery plans testing requirements in Rule
1004 for those larger member or participants might be limited.
The Commission believes that the costs to comply with Regulation SCI discussed above
would also fall on third-party vendors employed by Government Securities ATSs to provide
services used in their SCI systems. The costs for third-party vendors imposed by Regulation SCI
would depend on the extent to which Government Securities ATSs use third-party systems that
fall under the definition of SCI systems and the portion of third-party vendors operating SCI
systems on behalf of large (i.e., over the volume threshold) Government Securities ATSs that
already comply with the requirements of Regulation SCI. It is possible that some third-party
vendors operating SCI systems on behalf of large Government Securities ATSs already comply
with the requirements of Regulation SCI because they also operate the SCI systems for other SCI
(e.g., SCI ATSs, SCI SROs). The additional compliance costs from the proposed amendments of
Regulation SCI for these third-party vendors would be minimal. However, at this time, it is
difficult to estimate the cost for third-party vendors because the Commission does not know the
extent to which Government Securities ATSs use third-party systems that fall under the
definition of SCI systems.
b. Indirect Costs

1146 See id. The Regulation SCI Adopting Release estimated connectivity costs as part of
business continuity and disaster recovery plans to be approximately $10,000 per SCI
entity member or participant.
476
The Commission believes that the proposed amendments could result in indirect costs for
market participants and certain Government Securities ATSs and Communication Protocol
Systems.
The public disclosure requirements of Form ATS-N under the proposal could generate
indirect costs for some subscribers by causing Government Securities ATSs and Communication
Protocol Systems that are NMS Stock ATSs to stop sharing information that they might currently
offer to only some subscribers. Form ATS-N would require Government Securities ATSs and
NMS Stock ATSs to publicly disclose any platform-wide order execution metrics that they share
with any subscriber. To avoid publicly disclosing this information, an ATS might stop sharing
the information with subscribers. The trading costs of subscribers that currently use this
information to help make trading decisions would increase if the information is no longer
available to them. The risk of ATSs disclosing less information than they currently do depends
on several factors, such as the commercial purpose for releasing such information. If the
subscribers who receive such information demand the information as a condition of subscribing,
ATSs would have a commercial incentive to continue disclosing it. Thus, the Commission
believes that this risk might be low.
The Commission believes that the public disclosure of Form ATS-N would generate
indirect costs, in the form of transfers, for some subscribers of Government Securities ATSs or
Communication Protocol Systems that are NMS Stock ATSs who might currently have more
information regarding some ATS features, such as order priority and matching procedures, than
other subscribers. The public disclosure of these features would reduce informed subscribers’
information advantage over other subscribers on such Government Securities ATSs or
Communication Protocol Systems and increase their trading costs. In this regard, the
Commission recognizes that this effect would be a transfer to those subscribers who would
477
receive the proposed information, from those subscribers currently exclusively receive such
information.
Some Government Securities ATSs and Communication Protocol Systems that are NMS
Stock ATSs would experience indirect costs from the public disclosure of Form ATS-N to the
extent that this form would reveal information to competitors. If a Government Securities ATS
or NMS Stock ATS in part relies on certain operational characteristics (e.g., order types, trading
functionalities) to attract customer order flow and generate trading revenues, it is possible that
the public disclosure of these characteristics in Form ATS-N would make it easier for other
trading venues to adopt the operational characteristics, which would lower trading volume and
reduce revenue of the disclosing ATS. Such costs to the disclosing ATS would constitute
transfers to competing ATSs rather than a net cost to the market.
That said, the Commission believes that the risk of these transfers is low because it is not
likely the responsive information to the revised Form ATS-N would include detailed enough
information regarding operational facets such that the public disclosure of the information would
allow another ATS to replicate the functionality to the extent it would adversely affect the
competitive position of the disclosing ATS in the market.1147
The Commission believes that Government Securities ATSs and Communication
Protocol Systems that trade NMS stocks, non-NMS stock equity securities, corporate debt
securities, or municipal securities, and passive systems that trade NMS stocks could indirectly
experience costs in the form of lost revenue if they meet or exceed the Fair Access Rule
thresholds and need to alter their business model to comply with the requirements of the Fair
Access Rule. If they need to alter their terms of service or operations it may lead some
subscribers that currently trade on the venue and benefit from the existing terms of service or

1147 See supra note 467 and accompanying text.
478
operations to reduce the order flow they route to the venue or even leave the venue entirely,
which could reduce the ATS’s revenue. However, this revenue loss may be mitigated if the ATS
is also able to attract new subscribers or additional order flow that was previously not able to
access the venue.
1148 The Commission is not able to estimate the loss of revenues that
Government Securities ATSs, Communication Protocol Systems that trade NMS stocks, and
passive systems that meet the aggregate volume thresholds could incur as a result of applying the
Fair Access Rule, because the venues may alter their business operations in response to being
subject to the requirements of the Fair Access Rule and how the venue’s existing subscribers
may consequently alter their order flow or subscription to the ATS.
The Commission believes that market participants could incur indirect costs related to
Government Securities ATSs, Communication Protocol Systems that trade NMS stocks, nonNMS stock equity securities, corporate debt securities, or municipal securities, and passive
systems that trade NMS stocks being subject to the Fair Access Rule. As discussed in Section
VIII.C.1.b, applying the Fair Access Rule could lower trading costs for market participants who
are able to gain access to a trading venue from which they were previously excluded. This could
impose costs on existing subscribers who may currently benefit from limiting access to the
trading venue, though the Commission recognizes these costs would amount to transfers. To the
extent this occurs, it is possible that some existing subscribers may redirect some or all of their
trading interest to another trading venue that is not subject to the Fair Access Rule in order to
preserve some of the benefits they may receive from a trading venue limiting access. These
existing subscribers may incur search costs to find other venues to trade on as well as costs
 1148 The Commission believes that, even if, an ATS has to change its business operations as a
result of exceeding the Fair Access Rule threshold and is able to attract additional order
flow or subscribers, the ATS’s profits will likely be lower. If an ATS could have
increased its profits by altering its business model before it was subject to the Fair Access
Requirements, it would presumably have done so.
479
associated with administrative and operational procedures (e.g., means of access, connectivity,
order entry) to trade on a new trading venue. To the extent that existing subscribers shift their
trading from the trading venue that is subject to the Fair Access Rule to a trading venue that is
not subject to the rule, the benefits marker participants receive from gaining access to trading
venues subject to the Fair Access Rule could be reduced.
Furthermore, compared to larger and more established ATSs, it is possible that younger
ATSs rely more on providing catered services, including more advantageous access, to specific
clients or a clientele, in order to grow their businesses. If being subject to the Fair Access Rule
prohibits these ATSs from doing this, these ATSs could restrict trading on their systems when
they are close to meeting the volume thresholds under the Fair Access Rule. This may not result
in a significant increase in trading costs for market participants, because the order flow that was
being sent to those ATSs would likely be absorbed and redistributed amongst other ATSs or nonATS venues. However, if an ATS that is the sole provider of a niche service limits the trading in
certain securities to avoid being subject to the Fair Access Rule, it could be more difficult for
some market participants to find an alternative trading venue for that niche service, which would
result in a larger increase in trading costs.
Similarly, the proposed amendments to apply certain aggregate volume thresholds to the
Fair Access Rule in the markets for government securities, corporate debt and municipal
securities, and equity securities could also cause market participants to incur similar indirect
costs. If the aggregate volume of ATSs operated by a common broker-dealer or operated by
affiliated broker-dealers approaches the Fair Access volume thresholds, then the operators could
restrict trading in one or more securities on their systems in order to avoid being subject to the
requirements of the Fair Access Rule. However, ATSs in the markets for government securities,
corporate debt securities, and municipal securities may be unlikely to restrict trading in
480
individual securities on their systems because the aggregated volume threshold is applied
categorically rather than to individual securities.
Market participants could also incur indirect costs from the proposed amendments to
apply certain aggregate volume thresholds to the Fair Access Rule if it causes a broker-dealer or
affiliated broker-dealers that operate multiple ATSs to shut down one or more their smaller ATSs
in order to avoid triggering the Fair Access threshold. This could cause market participants that
subscribed to one of the shutdown platforms to incur search costs to find another venue to trade
on.
The Commission believes that market participants could incur indirect costs related to
applying Regulation SCI to Government Securities ATSs and Communication Protocol Systems
in equity securities and with applying Rule 301(b)(6) to Communication Protocol Systems in the
market for corporate debt securities or municipal securities. If a Government Securities ATS or
Communication Protocol System that trades NMS stocks is close to satisfying the volume
thresholds of Regulation SCI or Rule 301(b)(6), it could limit the trading in certain securities on
its systems to stay below the volume thresholds in order to avoid being subject to Regulation SCI
or Rule 301(b)(6). If this occurs for a Government Securities ATS or Communication Protocol
System that is the sole provider of a niche service, as discussed above, some market participants
would incur higher trading costs.
Additionally, in order to stay below the volume thresholds under Regulation SCI or Rule
301(b)(6), an ATS could break itself up into smaller ATSs. If this results in its subscribers
changing their administrative and operational procedures (e.g., means of access, connectivity,
order entry), the subscribers would incur costs associated with making those administrative and
operational changes to utilize the ATS, or otherwise incur search costs to find another venue to
trade.
3. Efficiency, Competition, and Capital Formation
481
The Commission has considered the effects of the proposed amendments on efficiency,
competition, and capital formation, and discussed these effects below.
a. Competition
The Commission preliminarily believes that the proposed amendments to Regulation
ATS and Regulation SCI would affect competition in the market for trading services.
1149
i. Regulation ATS
The Commission believes that the proposed amendments to Rule 3b-16 and Regulation
ATS would promote competition by requiring current ATSs and Communication Protocol
Systems to operate on a more equal basis. Additionally, the Commission believes that the
regulatory requirements and compliance costs associated with the proposed amendments to Rule
3b-16 and Regulation ATS could act as a deterrent or a barrier to entry for potential ATSs or
cause some smaller existing trading venues to exit the market for trading services.1150 However,
based on the estimated costs in Section VIII.C.2.a.i above, the burdens imposed by these
regulatory requirements or compliance costs may not be large enough for these effects to be
significant. Even if a smaller trading venue ceased operating, the Commission believes it may
not have a significant adverse effect on overall competition among trading venues, because the

1149 See supra Section VIII.C.1 for a discussion about benefits from the requirements of
Regulation ATS and Regulation SCI and Section VIII.C.2 for a discussion about costs of
the requirements of Regulation ATS and Regulation SCI.
1150 The expected compliance costs of Regulation SCI could act as a barrier to entry for new
entrants who expect to eventually become SCI ATSs. If the expected compliance costs
reduce the number of potential new entrants, this would reduce the potential competition
from new entrants. However, these effects may not be significant because the entry
decision at the margin, when the venue is small, may not be significantly influenced by
what would happen if the venue later became large enough and met the requirements of
Regulation SCI.
482
market for trading services is competitive and the trading volume from the venue would likely be
absorbed and redistributed amongst other ATSs or non-ATS venues.1151
Although the proposed amendments to Exchange Act Rule 3b-16 and Regulation ATS
may not significantly increase the barriers to entry for new trading venues or cause some existing
smaller trading venues to exit the market, the Commission lacks certain information necessary to
quantify the extent to which entities that otherwise would seek to operate as a trading venue in
the markets for government securities, repos, corporate, municipal, or equity securities would be
dissuaded from doing so. Specifically the decision for a trading venue to continue operating or
to cease operating depends on numerous factors and the Commission lacks information about
many of those factors. For example, the Commission does not have information on the extent to
which an existing Communication Protocol Systems would potentially need to alter its

1151 The competitive effects would vary based on the types of securities and the role that
ATSs and Communication Protocol Systems play in each securities market. See supra
Sections VIII.B.2.d, VIII.B.3.d, VIII.B.4.d, and VIII.B.5.f for a discussion about
competition in the market for trading services in different securities markets.
Furthermore, the Commission acknowledges that the effects on competition could be
greater if a smaller trading venue that is the sole provider of a niche service were shut
down. To the extent this occurs, it could adversely impact competition because it would
require some market participants to find other venues to trade on that may not minimize
their trading costs to the same extent. However, even in this case, the overall effects on
competition may still be limited because a competitor could create similar business
models if demand were adequate, and if it did not do so, it seems likely new entrants
would do so if demand were sufficient.
483
operations or business model as a result of the proposed amendments to Rule 3b-16 and
Regulation ATS.
a) Regulatory Framework
To the extent that current ATSs and Communication Protocol Systems compete,1152 the
proposed changes to Exchange Act Rule 3b-16, which would subject Communication Protocol
Systems to the exchange regulatory framework, which can include complying with Regulation
ATS,1153 would promote competition by requiring current ATSs and Communication Protocol
Systems to operate on a more equal basis in securities markets. One commenter on the Concept
Release stated that non-ATS trading platforms that are neither registered as exchanges nor as
ATSs perform core market place functions in fixed income securities (e.g., corporate and
municipal bonds) trading.1154 This commenter also noted that these non-ATS trading platforms
are operated by either broker-dealers or unregulated entities. Furthermore, this commenter stated
that the significant regulatory burdens on ATSs put ATSs at a competitive disadvantage to nonATS trading platforms that are not subject to the same regulatory obligations. Extending the
requirements of Regulation ATS to Communication Protocol Systems would help eliminate a

1152 See supra Sections VIII.B.2.d, VIII.B.2.d, VIII.B.2.d, and VIII.B.7 (discussing how
current ATSs in some markets tend to be interdealer markets and Communication
Protocol Systems tend to be dealer-to-customer markets).
1153 Under the proposal, Communication Protocol Systems that choose not to register as
exchanges can instead register as broker-dealers and comply with Regulation ATS.
Furthermore, under the proposal, Communication Protocol Systems operated by nonbroker-dealers would be subject to the same regulatory requirements as ATSs, including
the broker-dealer registration requirement of Regulation ATS. The Commission
estimates that 6 non-broker-dealer-operated Communication Protocol Systems without a
broker-dealer affiliate exist. The Commission assumes that, under the proposed
amendments, Communication Protocol Systems would choose to register as brokerdealers and comply with Regulation ATS, rather than register as exchanges. See supra
note 1056 and accompanying text.
1154 See ICE Bonds Letter II at 2 and 3.
484
competitive disadvantage for ATSs arising from uneven regulatory requirements in the market
for trading services.1155 As discussed in Section II.B.3, the proposed amendment would subject
both broker-dealer-operated and non-broker-dealer-operated Communication Protocol Systems
to the requirements of Regulation ATS. To comply with the broker-dealer registration
requirements of Regulation ATS, a non-broker-dealer-operated Communication Protocol System
would be required to become a member of an SRO (e.g., FINRA) and comply with the
requirements of the SRO, to which ATSs are currently required.
Similarly, extending Regulation ATS to Currently Exempted Government Securities
ATSs1156 and Communication Protocol Systems that trade government securities would help
promote competition by eliminating a Current Government Securities ATS’s competitive
disadvantage that might arise due to uneven regulatory requirements in the market for
government securities and repo trading services.1157

1155 See supra Sections VIII.B.2, VIII.B.3, VIII.B.4, VIII.B.5, and VIII.B.6 for discussions
regarding regulatory requirements for ATSs in the government securities, corporate debt
securities, municipal securities, equities, and options market, respectively. One
commenter on the Concept Release stated that applying a consistent regulatory
framework to trading platforms that provide equivalent services to market participants,
while also distinguishing between platforms that offer distinct trading protocols, would
level the competitive landscape and allow market participants to choose trading platforms
and protocols based on the merits of the services provided. Furthermore, this commenter
also stated that it would not be appropriate to regulate all types of electronic trading
protocols in the same manner regardless of their systemic risk profiles or to regulate
electronic trading protocols more strictly than equivalent non-electronic trading
protocols. See Tradeweb Letter at 4.
1156 Under the proposal, bank-operated Currently Exempted Government Securities ATSs
would be subject to the same regulatory requirements as non-bank-operated Currently
Exempted Government Securities ATSs and Current Government Securities ATSs. The
Commission estimates that 1 bank-operated Currently Exempted Government Securities
ATS exists.
1157 Current Government Securities ATSs might be at a competitive disadvantage to
Currently Exempted Government Securities ATSs and Communication Protocol Systems,
which do not currently incur compliance costs associated with the requirements of
Regulation ATS. As discussed above, Currently Exempted Government Securities ATSs,
bank-operated Currently Exempted Government Securities ATSs, Communication
485
The Commission acknowledges that some Government Securities ATSs and
Communication Protocol Systems could restructure their operations to be non-ATSs to avoid
being subject to Regulation ATS and Regulation SCI if the requirements are too burdensome or
impair the ability of the trading venue to compete. However, the risk of this occurring may be
mitigated because the proposed amendments to Rule 3b-16 may make it difficult for Government
Securities ATSs and Communication Protocol Systems to restructure their operations to be nonATSs.1158 To the extent this does occur, the benefits and enhancements to competition discussed
above would be reduced.1159
One commenter on the Concept Release stated that the flexibility of the current
regulatory framework allows financial technology firms1160 to innovate and compete fiercely.1161
This commenter also stated that this structure creates relatively low costs for entry (and exit) in
the development of new technologies.
1162 Subjecting Communication Protocol Systems to the

Protocol Systems, and Current Government Securities ATSs compete in the market for
government securities and repo trading services with different regulatory requirements.
For example, due to reporting requirements of Regulation ATS, it would be more
difficult or costly for a Current Government Securities ATS to implement significant
operational changes to compete with Currently Exempted Government Securities ATSs
and Communication Protocol Systems if the Current Government Securities ATS’s
competitive advantage is driven by operational facets that would be reported on Form
ATS. See also supra Sections II, III, VIII.B.2.a, and VIII.B.2.b for a discussion about the
differences in regulatory requirements between Current Government Securities ATSs,
Currently Exempted Government Securities ATSs, and Communication Protocol Systems
under the current regulatory framework.
1158 Additionally, although non-ATS venues would compete with ATSs in the market for
government securities and repo trading services, non-ATS venues cannot offer the same
services as ATSs without becoming ATSs.
1159 See supra Section VIII.C.1 for a discussion about benefits from the requirements of
Regulation ATS and Regulation SCI.
1160 For the purpose of this discussion, financial technology firm is interpreted to be a type of
Communication Protocol System (e.g., RFQ system).
1161 See Bloomberg Letter at 10 and 17.
1162 See Bloomberg Letter at 23.
486
requirements of Regulation ATS could reduce operational flexibility. For example, it would be
more costly for a Communication Protocol System to implement significant changes to
operational facets that would be required to be reported on Form ATS or Form ATS-N. The
Commission acknowledges that this reduction in operational flexibility could, under certain
circumstances, make it more difficult to innovate.1163 That said, in addition to the other benefits
discussed above,1164 the Commission believes that the proposed amendments would foster
competition by requiring current ATSs and Communication Protocol Systems to operate on a
more equal basis in the market for trading services. This, in turn, would help promote
innovation.
b) Compliance Costs of Regulation ATS
The Commission preliminarily believes that the compliance costs associated with the
requirements of Regulation ATS would have different effects on the competitive position of
ATSs depending on their size. However, the Commission believes that these initial and ongoing
compliance costs may not have a significant adverse impact on overall competition in the market
for trading services.
As a result of the proposed extension of Regulation ATS to Communication Protocol
Systems and Currently Exempted Government Securities ATSs, these ATSs would be subject to
Rule 301(b)(9) and (10), Rule 302, and Rule 303. Most of the estimated compliance costs1165

1163 For example, it would take longer for a Communication Protocol System that trades
government securities to implement an innovative operational facet that required a
significant change to its systems, e.g. an innovative trading protocol, because they it need
to file a Form ATS-N material amendment 30 days before implementing the system
change. See supra Section IV.A.
1164 See supra Section VIII.C.1.
1165 The compliance costs associated with the requirements of Regulation ATS are generally
represented by implementation costs (the monetized costs of PRA burdens). See also
supra note 1100. See supra Section VIII.C.2.a.i for a discussion on the implementation
costs associated with Rule 301(b)(9) and (10), Rule 302, and Rule 303. Communication
487
associated with these rules would be fixed costs to those ATSs regardless of the amount of
trading activity that takes place on them, and thus, these compliance costs would represent a
larger fraction of revenue for a small (measured in trading volume) ATS relative to that for a
large ATS.1166 Furthermore, most of the estimated compliance costs associated with the
requirements of Form ATS-N under Rule 304, which all Government Securities ATSs and
Communication Protocol Systems that trade NMS stocks would incur, would be fixed costs.
This could have an adverse impact on small ATSs in competing against larger ATSs, which
could act as a deterrent or a barrier to entry for potential ATSs or result in small ATSs exiting the
market for trading services.1167 However, if small Government Securities ATSs and
Communication Protocol Systems that trade NMS stocks engage in providing simpler services,
these small ATSs are likely to incur lower compliance costs.1168
One commenter on the Concept Release stated that the regulatory burdens associated
with subjecting all electronic platforms to the requirements of Regulation ATS could ultimately
reduce the number of different platforms available.1169 Another commenter on the Concept

Protocol Systems that are not broker-dealers and Currently Exempted Government
Securities ATSs that are banks would incur additional compliance costs associated with
the broker-dealer registration requirements under Rule 301(b)(1). See infra Section
VIII.C.3.1.i.c) for a discussion of the competitive effects of broker-dealer registration
requirements.
1166 See supra Section VIII.2.a.i for a discussion about the impact of implementation costs for
small ATSs.
1167 Based on the estimated costs in Section VIII.C.2.a.i above, the Commission preliminarily
believes that the compliance costs may not be large enough for these effects to be
significant. See supra note 1151 and accompanying text.
1168 See supra Section VIII.C.2.
1169 See SIFMA Letter at 9 and 11. Another commenter on the Concept Release stated that
the revision of the definition of “exchange” in Exchange Act Rule 3b-16 (“Rule 3b-16”)
to expand the applicability of Regulation ATS to firms currently regulated as non-ATS
broker-dealers may cause disruption if not undertaken carefully. See Tradeweb Letter at
2. An additional commenter stated that the Commission must be careful in implementing
any reforms to the oversight of corporate bond and municipal securities trading venues to
488
Release stated that the changes contemplated to Rule 3b-16 could end up raising costs for new
financial technology (i.e., fintech1170) entrants (liquidity solutions) to enter, stifle innovation and
damage the current ability of market participants to locate liquidity in all illiquid security
markets.1171 This commenter also stated that a change in the definition of exchange would insert
unnecessary intermediation between dealers and their customers and damage liquidity
formation.1172
As discussed above, the compliance costs from the proposed amendments to Regulation
ATS may not significantly increase the barriers to entry for new trading venues or cause some
existing Communication Protocol Systems and Currently Exempted Government Securities
ATSs to exit the market. Therefore, the Commission believes that the compliance costs
associated with Regulation ATS may not have a significant adverse impact on competition in the
markets for trading services. As discussed above, while the Commission acknowledges the
proposed amendments could reduce operational flexibility, which could, under certain
circumstances, make it more difficult to innovate, the Commission believes increased

ensure that there are no unintended consequences for investors, such as the reduction in
the availability of the types of platforms that investors utilize to effect transactions in
these securities. See MFA Letter at 8.
1170 For the purpose of this discussion, fintech is interpreted to be a type of Communication
Protocol System (e.g., RFQ system).
1171 See Bloomberg Letter at 3. This commenter on the Concept Release stated that adding
fintechs, such as RFQ systems, to the definition of exchange would erect high regulatory
hurdles for innovation and new fintech entrants. See also Bloomberg Letter at 28.
Another commenter on the Concept Release similarly expressed concern that any
revisions to the regulatory framework for fixed income electronic trading should not stifle
the investment and innovation that has led to the variety of existing trading protocols, and
that it would be a mistake to interrupt this evolution through the increased imposition of
an equity-based regulatory framework. See MarketAxess Letter at 3.
1172 See Bloomberg Letter at 20. This commenter also stated that a change in the definition
of exchange would threaten to distort the market structure by creating a one-size-fits-all
approach that is biased against the trading of less-liquid instruments, damaging liquidity
formation. See id.
489
competition from the proposed amendments providing a more equal regulatory basis would help
promote innovation.1173 To the extent the proposed amendments force an innovative fintech to
exit the market, it may be able to restructure itself (rather than operate as an ATS) as a thirdparty vendor and continue to provide certain innovative services, or otherwise sell its technology
to another ATS, which would mitigate to some extent any adverse impact the proposed
amendments may have on innovation.
To the extent the proposed amendments result in a Communication Protocol System that
trades less liquid securities exiting the market for trading services, it could increase the trading
costs of its subscribers if they need to find a new trading venue or are forced to go through
multiple intermediaries (i.e., broker-dealers) to find counterparties. However, as discussed
above, the Commission preliminarily believes this may not result in a significant increase in
trading costs for market participants because the trading interest that was being sent to the
Communication Protocol System would likely be absorbed and redistributed amongst other
ATSs or non-ATS venues.
1174
c) Broker-dealer Registration Requirements
In addition to the compliance costs associated with the requirements of Regulation ATS,
non-broker-dealer-operated Communication Protocol Systems without a broker-dealer affiliate
would incur additional compliance costs related to registering with the Commission as brokerdealers, becoming members of an SRO, such as FINRA, and maintaining broker-dealer
registration and SRO membership.1175 Although these additional compliance costs could harm
the competitive position of these Communication Protocol Systems and raise barriers to entry for

1173 See supra Section VIII.C.3.a.i.a).
1174 See supra Section VIII.C.2.b.
1175 The Commission estimates there are 6 non-broker-dealer-operated Communication
Protocol Systems without a broker-dealer affiliate. See supra Section VIII.C.2.a.ii.
490
entrants who are not broker-dealers nor affiliated with another broker-dealer, the Commission
preliminarily believes that the compliance costs associated with the proposed broker-dealer
registration requirements may not have a significant adverse effect on overall competition in the
market for trading services.
Although the Commission acknowledges uncertainty about the compliance costs
associated with the proposed broker-dealer registration requirements,1176 there are two reasons
why these costs may not be significant enough to make a non-broker-dealer-operated
Communication Protocol Systems exiting the market likely. First, the Commission believes that
the estimated average costs may not be significant enough to make exiting the market likely.1177
Second, the Commission believes that the adverse effect on competition may be limited to
existing small Communication Protocol Systems and this adverse effect may be mitigated to
some extent because small Communication Protocol Systems would incur lower compliance
costs associated with the broker-dealer registration requirements.1178 To the extent that one of
these Communication Protocol Systems ceased operating, the Commission believes it may not
have a significant adverse effect on overall competition among trading venues, because the
market for trading services is competitive and the trading volume from the venue would likely be
absorbed and redistributed amongst other ATSs or non-ATS venues.1179

1176 As discussed above, the costs would vary significantly across firms and the
Commission’s estimate is uncertain because it does not have information on the nonbroker-dealer-operated Communication Protocol Systems without a broker-dealer
affiliate. See id.
1177 The Commission estimates an initial cost of approximately $317,000 to register as a
broker-dealer with the Commission and become a member of FINRA and an ongoing
annual cost of approximately $58,000 to maintain the broker-dealer registration and
FINRA membership. See id.
1178 See id. for a discussion about the costs associated with the broker-dealer registration
requirements under Rule 301(b)(1).
1179 See supra note 1151 and accompanying text.
491
d) Ineffectiveness Declaration
The proposed ability for the Commission to be able to declare a Form ATS-N or Form
ATS-N amendment ineffective could result in compliance costs for Government Securities ATSs
and Communication Protocol Systems that are NMS Stock ATSs and may affect competition in
the market for government securities, repos, and NMS stock trading services. However, based
on Commission staff’s experience with NMS Stock ATSs that filed an initial Form ATS-N, the
Commission preliminarily believes this would be an unlikely result.1180 To the extent the
Commission declares an initial Form ATS-N or amendment ineffective, the ATS would either
have to cease operations1181 or, in the case of an amendment, roll back any changes it made and
operate pursuant to its previous Form ATS-N that is effective until it is able to address the
deficiencies and file a new Form ATS-N that becomes effective.1182 To the extent the
Commission declares an initial Form ATS-N or amendment ineffective, some broker-dealer
operators of Government Securities ATSs and Communication Protocol Systems in NMS Stocks
might find that the costs of addressing deficiencies in Form ATS-N outweigh the benefits of
continuing to operate the trading venue, particularly if the trading venue does not constitute a
significant source of profit for a broker-dealer operator.
The ability of the Commission to declare Form ATS-N ineffective could also raise
barriers to entry for new ATSs, as it might create uncertainty as to whether the Commission
would declare its initial Form ATS-N effective or ineffective and as to the cost of avoiding an

1180 Unlike the current rules applicable to NMS Stock ATSs under Rule 304 of Regulation
ATS with respect to ineffectiveness, the Commission does not have a process to declare a
Form ATS ineffective because of the quality of the disclosures and cause the ATS cease
operating pursuant the exemption. See Rule 304(a)(1)(iv)(B).
1181 See Rule 304(a)(1)(iv)(B).
1182 See id.
492
ineffective declaration. If a new ATS’s initial Form ATS-N is declared ineffective, it would
require time and additional expenditures to address the deficiencies delaying the commencing of
operations, which would deter some potential ATSs from entry into the market for trading
services. However, because an ineffectiveness declaration would be an unlikely result,1183 the
Commission believes it would not significantly raise the barriers to entry for new ATSs.
e) Fair Access
The Commission believes that applying the Fair Access Rule to Government Securities
ATSs, Communication Protocol Systems, and passive systems could increase competition
between market participants in the markets for government securities, repos, corporate and
municipal securities, and equity securities. As discussed above, to the extent that there are
market participants currently excluded from trading on significant Government Securities ATSs,
Communication Protocol Systems, or passive systems, applying the Fair Access Rule to
Government Securities ATSs, Communication Protocol Systems, and passive systems could
increase trading venue options available to these market participants, which could lower their
trading costs.
1184 This, in turn, could increase competition among market participants trading on
these platforms, which could be significant sources of liquidity and represent a significant
portion of trading volume in their respective markets.1185 However, these competitive effects

1183 See supra Section VIII.C.2.a.iii (discussing the Commission’s belief that the potential
costs of an ineffectiveness declaration would incentivize Government Securities ATSs
and Communication Protocol Systems to initially submit a more accurate and complete
Form ATS-N and amendments, which would reduce the likelihood that they are declared
ineffective).
1184 See supra Section VIII.C.1.b.
1185 One commenter on the 2020 Proposal stated that, since the bilateral fixed-income market
is a heavily relationship-driven business, the Fair Access rule would better ensure that
broker-dealers and their affiliates cannot engage in retaliatory behavior, and thus improve
access and competition for the largest, most systemically important markets. See AFREF
Letter at 3.
493
may be reduced to the extent that some existing subscribers of trading venues that are subject to
the Fair Access Rule redirect their trading interest to other trading venues not subject to the Fair
Access Rule in order to preserve some of the benefits they may receive from a trading venue
limiting access.1186 If the proposed amendments to apply certain aggregate volume thresholds
increase the number of smaller affiliate ATSs that would be subject to the Fair Access Rule, it
could also increase competition among market participants, to the extent certain market
participants are currently excluded from accessing these platforms.
The Commission believes that the proposed amendments to apply certain aggregate
volume thresholds to the Fair Access Rule could harm competition among trading venues in the
markets for government securities, corporate debt and municipal securities, and equity securities.
As discussed above, if the aggregate volume of ATSs operated by a common broker-dealer or
operated by affiliated broker-dealers approaches the Fair Access volume thresholds, then the
operators could restrict trading on their systems in one or more securities in order to avoid being
subject to the requirements of the Fair Access Rule.1187 However, ATSs in the markets for
government securities and corporate debt and municipal securities may be unlikely to restrict
trading in individual securities on their systems because the aggregated volume threshold is
applied categorically rather than to individual securities. If these venues restrict trading in some
securities, it would reduce competition among trading venues to attract order flow in these
securities.
Additionally, the proposed amendments to apply certain aggregate volume thresholds to
the Fair Access Rule could also harm competition among trading venues if they cause a broker-

1186 See supra Section VIII.C.2.b (discussing the indirect costs to market participants related
to the requirements of the Fair Access Rule).
1187 See supra Section VIII.C.2.b.
494
dealer or affiliated broker-dealers that operate multiple ATSs to shut down one or more their
smaller ATSs in order to avoid triggering the Fair Access threshold.1188 However, because the
trading volume on these smaller ATSs would likely be absorbed and redistributed amongst other
ATSs or non-ATS venues, the Commission believes that the overall effects on competition
among trading venues may not be significant.
f) Public Disclosure
The increase in transparency due to the public disclosure of Form ATS-N would promote
competition in the markets for government securities, repos, and NMS stock trading services.
The increase in competition could result in lower venue fees, improve the efficiency in customer
trading interest or order handling procedures, and promote innovation. For instance, because the
public disclosure of Form ATS-N would make it easier for market participants to compare fees
across ATSs,1189 market participants could choose to send their orders to ATSs that offer lower
fees, which in turn, could induce ATSs to lower their fees to attract new subscribers. If non-ATS
venues compete with ATSs for trading services, the increased operational transparency of ATSs
might also incentivize non-ATS trading venues to reduce their fees to compete with ATSs.
Because the public disclosure of Form ATS-N would make it easier for market
participants to compare the quality of trading services, such as innovative trading functionalities,
order handling procedures, and execution statistics—if they are made available, across
venues,
1190 market participants would be more likely to send their trading interests or orders to

1188 See id.
1189 Under the proposed amendments, Government Securities ATSs (inclusive of
Communication Protocol Systems, as proposed) and Communication Protocol Systems
that trade NMS stocks would need to begin disclosing their Form ATS-N. Current NMS
Stock ATSs already publically disclose their Form ATS-N.
1190 See supra Section VIII.C.1.b for a discussion about benefits from public disclosure of
Form ATS-N.
495
ATSs that offer better trading services. This would promote greater competition in the market
for trading services and incentivize ATSs to innovate, including, in particular, technology related
to trading services to improve the quality of such services to attract more subscribers.
Similarly, the public disclosure of Form ATS-N would also result in market participants
redirecting their trading interest away from ATSs that offer lower quality trading services
compared to other ATSs, which could result in these ATSs earning less revenue. If the loss in
revenue causes these ATSs to become unprofitable, they might choose to exit the market.
1191
The proposed amendment to require timely fee change disclosure on Form ATS-N would
promote competition between current NMS Stock ATSs and other trading venues in the market
for NMS stocks, including exchanges.1192 In the Commission staff’s experience, NMS Stock
ATSs have taken varied approaches to the reporting of fees. Current NMS Stock ATSs that treat
fee changes as material changes in filing Form ATS-N are required to wait 30 calendar days
from the filing date to implement a fee change.1193 In other cases, NMS Stock ATSs have filed
updating amendments no later than 30 days following the end of the calendar quarter in which a
fee change was made. The Commission believes that requiring NMS Stock ATSs to file a fee
amendment no later than the date it makes the change to a fee or fee disclosure would require
those NMS Stock ATSs to provide the public with sufficient notice about a fee change while
enabling those NMS Stock ATSs to nimbly change fees in competing against other trading

1191 See supra note 1151 and accompanying text for a discussion on the effects of ATSs
exiting the market for trading services.
1192 Under the proposed amendments, Government Securities ATSs would also be required to
file fee amendments on Form ATS-N. This could promote competition among
Government Securities ATSs because timely fee disclosure of fee changes by
Government ATSs would make it easier for market participants to compare fees between
trading venues. This could incentivize trading venues in the market for Government
Securities to reduce their fees to compete to attract order flow.
1193 See supra Section IV.A for a discussion about fee amendments on Form ATS-N.
496
venues. Furthermore, under Section 19(b) of the Exchange Act, national securities exchanges
can implement fee changes upon filing with the Commission.1194 To the extent that NMS Stock
ATSs compete with exchanges in fees to attract order flow, the proposed amendment would
promote competition by helping to level the playing field between NMS Stock ATSs and
exchanges in terms of the timeframes in which they can initiate and disclose fee changes.1195
The public disclosure of a Government Securities ATS’s or Communication Protocol
System that trades NMS stock’s previously non-public information regarding innovative
operational facets could adversely impact competition in the market for trading services and also
reduce the incentives for these trading venues to innovate. If the competitive advantage of an
ATS in the market is driven by certain operational innovations, the disclosure of this information
could result in other competing ATSs with similar operational platforms implementing similar

1194 Under Section 19(b)(3), SRO rule changes that: constitute a stated policy, practice, or
interpretation with respect to the meaning, administration, or enforcement of an existing
rule of the SRO; establish or changing a due, fee, or other charge imposed by the SRO; or
are concerned solely with the administration of the SRO, are immediately effective upon
filing. However, the Commission may suspend one of these SRO rule changes within 60
days of the date the SRO rule change is filed with the Commission, if it appears to the
Commission that such action is necessary or appropriate in the public interest, for the
protection of investors, or the maintenance of fair and orderly markets, to remove
impediments to, and perfect the mechanisms of, a national market system, or otherwise in
furtherance of the purposes of the Exchange Act. If the Commission does suspend a SRO
rule change, then it shall institute proceedings under Section 19(b)(2)(B) to determine
whether the proposed SRO rule change should be approved or disapproved. See 15
U.S.C. 78s(b)(2) and 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(3).
1195 Currently, an amendment to a fee could result in an ATS filing an updating amendment
or a material amendment, depending on the nature of the change and the ATS’s
assessment of whether such change was material. If an NMS Stock ATS would file an
updating amendment to disclose a fee change, then the proposed amendment would help
level the playing field by reducing the amount of time that the NMS Stock ATS would
have before it had to disclose a fee change, bringing it more in line with the disclosure
timeframes of exchanges. If an NMS Stock ATS would file a material amendment to
disclose a fee change, then the proposed amendment would help level the playing field
because the NMS Stock ATS would no longer have to give 30 days’ notice before
initiating the fee change, bringing it more in line with the notice timeline in which
exchanges can initiate fee changes.
497
methodologies, which could cause market participants to send their trading interest or orders to
those other ATSs. To the extent some ATSs may rely on these innovations to attract trading
interest, this could cause some existing ATSs to exit the market or raise the barriers to entry for
new ATSs, which could adversely impact competition.
1196 Additionally, it could reduce the
incentives for ATSs to innovate if publicly disclosing new innovations results in the disclosing
ATS earning less revenue from new innovations it develops. However, the Commission believes
that the risk of these adverse effects occurring would be low, because the information disclosed
on Form ATS-N is not likely to include detailed enough information regarding operational facets
or innovations such that the public disclosure would adversely affect the competitive position of
the disclosing ATS.1197
One commenter on the 2020 Proposal stated that the Commission should not require
making commercially sensitive information filed on the previously proposed Form ATS-G
publicly available, which the commenter classified as information on certain fees or charges for
use of the ATS’s services and on aggregate, platform-wide order flow and execution statistics
that the ATS already otherwise collects and publishes to one or more subscribers.1198 The
commenter stated that the public disclosure of such information would have a negative impact on
innovation and competition among ATSs. As discussed above, the Commission believes that the
responsive information to the Form ATS-N is not likely to include commercially sensitive or

1196 See supra note 1151 and accompanying text for a discussion on the effects of ATSs
exiting the market for trading services.
1197 See supra note 467 and accompanying text.
1198 See Tradeweb Letter at 3, 10, and 11. Similarly, another commenter stated that
publication of compliance procedures/processes is not commonplace and risks requiring
disclosure of proprietary information. See ICE Bonds Letter I at 6.
498
other information the public disclosure of which would result in the disclosing ATSs exiting the
market for trading services and ultimately reduce transparency.
One commenter on the 2020 Proposal stated that if the disclosure requirements of
previously proposed Form ATS-G are too burdensome or impair the ability of Government
Securities ATSs to compete, it will discourage the expansion of ATSs and potentially encourage
operators of Government Securities ATS to restructure their operations to avoid being
characterized as an ATS, which would ultimately result in less transparency rather than more.1199
As discussed above, although the Commission acknowledges that some Government Securities
ATSs could restructure their operations to be non-ATSs to avoid being subject to the public
disclosure of Form ATS-N, the risk of this occurring may be mitigated because the proposed
amendments to Rule 3b-16 may make it difficult for them to restructure their operations to be
non-ATSs.1200
ii. Regulation SCI
The Commission believes that the requirements imposed by Regulation SCI may not
have a significant adverse effect on competition in the market for trading services or on market
participants’ trading costs.
The Commission believes that the compliance costs imposed by Regulation SCI may not
have a significant adverse effect on competition among SCI ATSs, non-SCI ATSs, and non-ATS
venues in the government securities market due to mitigating factors.1201 The compliance costs

1199 See ICE Bonds Letter I at 5 and ICE Bonds Letter II at 4.
1200 See supra Section VIII.C.3.a.i.a).
1201 NMS Stock ATSs that meet certain volume thresholds are subject to Regulation SCI.
The Commission estimates that no Communication Protocol System that is an NMS
Stock ATS would be subject to Regulation SCI. The Commission preliminarily believes
that subjecting significant Communication Protocol Systems that are NMS Stock ATSs to
499
imposed by Regulation SCI would have some impact on competition in the market for
government securities trading services. Specifically, because non-SCI ATSs do not have to incur
the compliance costs associated with Regulation SCI, non-SCI ATSs and non-ATS venues
would gain a competitive advantage in the market for trading services over SCI ATSs, with
which they compete.1202 If SCI ATSs pass on the compliance costs to their subscribers in the
form of higher fees, SCI ATSs would lose order flow or their subscribers to other non-SCI ATSs
and non-ATS venues with lower fees. Adverse competitive effects, however, would be mitigated
because an SCI ATS would likely have more robust systems, fewer disruptive systems issues,
and better up-time compared to non-SCI ATSs. Furthermore, any adverse competitive effect
may be minor if an SCI ATS is large and has a more stable and established subscriber base than
other ATSs and non-ATS venues.
The compliance costs associated with participating in business continuity and disaster
recovery plan testing would affect competition among subscribers of SCI ATSs and also would
raise barriers to entry for new subscribers. Because some subscribers would incur compliance
costs associated with Rule 1004 and others would not, it would adversely impact the ability for
those subscribers of SCI ATSs to compete. However, it is difficult to gauge the extent of impact
on competition because the Commission does not have sufficient information, for example, on
whether certain subscribers of SCI ATSs currently maintain connections to backup facilities,
including for testing purposes. If larger subscribers of SCI ATSs already maintain connections
to backup facilities including for testing purposes, the adverse impact on competition would be
mitigated because the incremental compliance costs associated with the business continuity and

Regulation SCI would affect competition as discussed in the Regulation SCI Adopting
Release.
1202 The expected compliance costs could act as a barrier to entry for new entrants who expect
to eventually become SCI ATSs, but the Commission preliminarily believes this would
not be a likely possibility. See supra note 1150.
500
disaster recovery plan testing requirements under Rule 1004 would be limited for those larger
subscribers. The Commission believes that new subscribers are less likely to be designated
immediately to participate in business continuity and disaster recovery plan testing than are
existing larger subscribers because new subscribers might not initially satisfy the ATS’s
designation standards as they establish their businesses.
It is difficult to estimate the costs of Regulation SCI for third-party vendors that operate
SCI systems or indirect SCI systems1203 on behalf of SCI ATSs.1204 If Regulation SCI imposes
compliance costs on such vendors, the compliance costs would affect the competition among
third-party vendors in the market for SCI systems or indirect SCI systems. If the costs associated
with Regulation SCI for third-party vendors outweigh the benefits of continuing to operate SCI
systems or indirect SCI systems on behalf of SCI ATSs, these third-party vendors would exit the
market for SCI systems or indirect systems. In this respect, Regulation SCI would adversely
impact such vendors and reduce the ability for some third-party vendors to compete in the
market for SCI systems and indirect SCI systems, with attendant costs to SCI ATSs. If this
happens, SCI ATSs would incur costs from having to find a new vendor, form a new business
relationship, and adapt their systems to those of the new vendor. SCI ATSs might also elect to
perform the relevant functions internally. If the current third-party vendors are the most efficient
means of performing certain functions for SCI ATSs, and to the extent that any third-party
vendor exits the market, finding new vendors or performing the functions internally would
represent a reduction in efficiency for SCI ATSs.
b. Efficiency and Capital Formation

1203 See supra note 348 for the definition of indirect SCI systems.
1204 See supra Section VIII.C.2.a.vi.
501
The Commission believes the proposed amendments to Rule 3b-16, Regulation ATS, and
Regulation SCI could promote price efficiency and capital formation by reducing trading costs
and the potential for systems disruptions on ATSs that capture a significant portion of trading
volume.
1205 However, if ATSs restrict trading volume in certain securities to stay below the Fair
Access Rule, Regulation SCI, and Rule 301(b)(6) thresholds, it could adversely affect price
efficiency and capital formation.
As discussed above, the proposed requirement for certain Communication Protocol
Systems and Government Securities ATSs to publically disclose Form ATS-N could help reduce
trading costs for market participants.1206 Additionally, subjecting significant Communication
Protocol Systems and Government Securities ATS to the Fair Access Rule could also help
reduce market participants’ trading costs.1207 A reduction in trading costs could, in turn, reduce
limits to arbitrage and help facilitate informed traders impounding information into security
prices, which could enhance price efficiency.1208 Furthermore, extending Regulation SCI and
Rule 301(b)(6) would help improve systems up-time1209 for ATSs and would also promote more
robust systems that directly support execution facilities, order matching, and the dissemination of

1205 See supra Sections VIII.B.2.a and VIII.B.2.b for discussions about the importance of realtime price information on Government Securities ATS and indicative quotes on
Communication Protocol Systems that trade U.S. Treasury Securities in price discovery
of various securities. See supra Section VIII.C.1.c, discussing the benefits of reducing
system disruptions through Regulation SCI and Rule 301(b)(6).
1206 See supra Section VIII.C.1.b.
1207 See id.
1208 See, e.g., Shleifer, A. and Vishny, R. (1997). The Limits of Arbitrage. The Journal of
Finance, 52(1), 35-55 (discussing limits to arbitrage); Grossman, S. and Stiglitz, J.
(1980). On the impossibility of informationally efficient markets. American Economic
Review, 70, 393–408 (discussing informed traders and price efficiency).
1209 Systems up-time is a measure of the time that a computer system is running and
available.
502
market data, which could also enhance price efficiency.1210 In particular, enhanced price
efficiency in the secondary market for on-the-run U.S. Treasury Securities might also enhance
the price efficiency of risky securities because the transaction prices of on-the-run U.S. Treasury
Securities are used as risk-free rate benchmarks to price risky securities transactions.1211
Enhanced price efficiency could also promote capital formation. Price efficiency of
securities is important because prices that accurately convey information about fundamental
value improve the efficiency in allocating capital across projects and entities, which helps
promote capital formation.
On the other hand, the Commission believes that the proposed amendments of the Fair
Access Rule, Regulation SCI, and Rule 301(b)(6) could also adversely affect price efficiency and
capital formation if ATSs that are close to satisfying the volume threshold limit trading over
some period restrict trading or cease operating to stay below the volume thresholds and avoid
being subject to these rules.
1212 To the extent that this keeps ATSs from getting larger, it would
increase fragmentation, and thus, adversely affect price efficiency in those markets, harming
capital formation.
D. Reasonable Alternatives
The Commission considered several alternatives to the proposal: (1) require Currently
Exempted Government Securities ATSs and certain Communication Protocol Systems to file
Form ATS, but not publicly disclose Form ATS; (2) require differing levels of public disclosure
by Government Securities ATSs depending on their trading volume; (3) extend the transparency

1210 See supra Section VIII.C.1.c.
1211 Based on the Commission’s understanding, Government Securities ATSs disseminate
their Treasury trades via private feeds and third-party vendors. These prices also serve as
benchmarks for pricing other financial products. See October 15 Staff Report, supra note
188.
1212 See supra Section VIII.C.2.b.
503
requirements (i.e., Form ATS-N) of Regulation ATS to all ATSs and Communication Protocol
Systems; (4) apply Rule 301(b)(6) of Regulation ATS to Government Securities ATSs; (5) alter
the volume thresholds for the Fair Access Rule; (6) alter the Government Securities ATS volume
thresholds for Regulation SCI; (7) exclude Communication Protocol Systems from the definition
of “exchange” but require them to register as broker-dealers; (8) require Forms ATS-N, ATS,
and ATS-R to be submitted in Inline XBRL; and (9) require the content of Form ATS-N to be
posted on individual ATS websites.
1. Require Government Securities ATSs to File a Non-Public Form ATS
One alternative could require Government Securities ATSs (inclusive of Communication
Protocol Systems, as proposed) to file Form ATS and subsequent amendments with the
Commission, instead of filing Form ATS-N. This alternative would allow Current Government
Securities ATSs to continue to file current Form ATS. However, Form ATS would be deemed
confidential for all Government Securities ATSs and would not have to be publicly disclosed.
Under this alternative, compliance costs would be lower because the costs to prepare a Form
ATS for Government Securities ATSs is less than preparing a Form ATS-N. Furthermore,
Government Securities ATSs would not incur additional costs associated with amending Form
ATS-N to address any deficiencies to avoid an ineffectiveness determination, because Rule 304
of Regulation ATS does not apply to Form ATS filings. However, this alternative would reduce
regulators’ insight into Government Securities ATSs compared to the proposal because Form
ATS would require the disclosure of less information about the operations of Government
Securities ATSs and the activities of their broker-dealer operators and their affiliates, as
compared to Form ATS-N.
The lack of public disclosure of Form ATS under the alternative could result in market
participants making less informed decisions regarding where to send their orders, and thus, could
result in lower execution quality than they would obtain under the proposal. Additionally, this
504
alternative could result in higher search costs for subscribers to identify potential trading venues
for their orders. Because Government Securities ATSs would not have to publicly disclose their
fees or details about their operations, there would be less competition among Government
Securities ATSs and between Government Securities ATSs and non-ATS trading venues
compared to the proposal. If there is less competition for order flow in the market for
government securities and repo trading services, there could also be less incentive for
Government Securities ATSs to innovate.
2. Initiate Differing Levels of Public Disclosure Depending on Government
Securities ATS Dollar Volume
The Commission could require different levels of disclosure (i.e., under Rule 304) among
Government Securities ATSs based on the dollar volume in government securities traded on the
platform. In particular, this alternative would subject Government Securities ATSs with lower
dollar volumes to lower levels of disclosure on the revised Form ATS-N. This alternative could
provide smaller Government Securities ATSs with a competitive advantage over larger ones
because smaller Government Securities ATSs would incur lower compliance costs relative to the
proposal, which could translate into lower entry barriers relative to such barriers under the
proposal. Because these small Government Securities ATSs would not have to disclose as much
information pertaining to their operational facets to their competitors, they would have a
competitive advantage over more established Government Securities ATSs and other trading
venues. This approach therefore would promote competition in the market. To the extent the
public disclosure of Form ATS-N would have discouraged innovation,1213 this alternative also
would promote innovation because these small Government Securities ATSs would not be
deterred from innovating by the possibility of having to disclose certain operational facets, which

1213 As discussed above, the risk that the public disclosure of Form ATS-N would reduce the
incentives for ATSs to is likely to be low. See supra Section VIII.C.3.a.i.f).
505
could also benefit market participants who trade on these ATSs by improving the execution
quality of their trades. However, because some Government Securities ATS would not have to
publicly disclose as much information on their Form ATS-N, market participants may not be as
able to compare Government Securities ATSs to select the most appropriate venue for the their
trading objectives, which could increase market participant search costs and trading costs relative
to the proposal.
1214 Additionally, this alternative could incentivize small Government Securities
ATSs to limit the trading in government securities on their ATSs to stay small and not trigger
additional disclosure requirements. If this were to happen, it could limit market participants’
options for trading venues, which could result in higher trading costs relative to the proposal.
3. Extend the Transparency Requirements of Regulation ATS to All ATSs
and Communication Protocol Systems
As another alternative, the Commission could extend the transparency requirements (i.e.,
the public disclosure on Form ATS-N under Rule 304) of Regulation ATS to all ATSs and
Communication Protocol Systems. Under this alternative, investors would receive information
about the ATS operations and the activities of the broker-dealer operators and affiliates of all
ATSs and Communication Protocol Systems. While the disclosure requirements of individual
systems would be similar to what is required under the proposal, investors would be able to
access detailed information on ATSs and Communication Protocol Systems that currently do not
file Form ATS-N. This could help market participants make better-informed decisions about
where to send their orders to achieve their trading objectives as compared to under the proposal.
Compared to the proposal, the public disclosure of Form ATS-N by all ATSs and
Communication Protocol Systems would further promote competition, which could result in

1214 See supra Section VIII.C.1.b.
506
lower venue fees, improve the efficiency in handling of customer trading interest procedures, and
promote innovation.
Under this alternative, ATSs and Communication Protocol Systems that currently do not
file Form ATS-N would incur the compliance costs discussed in Section VIII.C.2.a to comply
with Regulation ATS. Additionally, the public disclosure of details regarding the operational
facets of these ATSs and Communication Protocol Systems could adversely impact competition
and raise barriers to entry in the market for trading services, and could also lower the incentives
for these ATSs and Communication Protocol Systems to innovate. However, the Commission
believes that the risk of this is likely to be low.1215
4. Apply Rule 301(b)(6) of Regulation ATS to Government Securities ATSs
Another alternative for the Commission is to apply the Capacity, Integrity, and Security
Rule in Rule 301(b)(6)1216 of Regulation ATS to Government Securities ATSs instead of
extending Regulation SCI. The scope and requirements of the Capacity, Integrity, and Security
Rule would be narrower than those of Regulation SCI. For example, Rule 301(b)(6) of
Regulation ATS would apply to a narrower set of systems, as compared to Regulation SCI. Rule
301(b)(6) of Regulation ATS applies only to systems that support order entry, order routing,
order execution, transaction reporting, and trade comparison, which is narrower than the
definition of SCI system. This could result in the establishment of less robust systems in

1215 See supra Section VIII.C.3.a.i.f) for a discussion about the risk that the responsive
information to the revised Form ATS-N would include information regarding operational
facets such that the public disclosure of the information would adversely affect the
competitive position of the disclosing ATS or Communication Protocol Systems and why
the Commission believes that this risk is likely to be low. See also supra note 467 and
accompanying text.
1216 As also explained above, Rule 301(b)(6) addresses the capacity, integrity, and security
requirements of automated systems for ATSs that meet certain volume thresholds. See
supra note 157.
507
Government Securities ATSs compared to the proposal. This may increase the duration and
severity of any system distributions, and result in more system issues occurring on Government
Securities ATSs, which may, in turn, cause more interruptions in the price discovery process and
liquidity flows and increase the occurrence of periods with pricing inefficiencies compared to the
proposal.1217 Furthermore, the Commission believes that compliance costs associated with the
Capacity, Integrity, and Security Rule would be significantly less than those under the proposal
because the scope and requirements of the Capacity, Integrity, and Security Rule would be
narrower than those of Regulation SCI. For example, the Capacity, Integrity, and Security Rule
would not require Government Securities ATSs to maintain a backup facility to comply with the
requirements of Regulation SCI related to business continuity and disaster recovery plans. To
the extent that Government Securities ATSs pass on these compliance costs to their subscribers,
the significantly lower compliance costs of this alternative could result in lower trading costs for
market participants compared to the proposal. Furthermore, the lower compliance costs of this
alternative could lower barriers to entry in the market for government securities trading services
and increase competition compared to the proposal, which would also result in lower trading
costs for market participants.
As another alternative, the Commission could apply the Capacity, Integrity, and Security
Rule in Rule 301(b)(6) to smaller Government Securities ATSs and extend Regulation SCI to
larger Government Securities ATSs as proposed. For example, the Commission could require a
Government Securities ATS that falls within a volume range for U.S. Treasury Securities of 5
percent and 10 percent to comply with Rule 301(b)(6) of Regulation ATS and a Government
Securities ATS that exceeds a 10 percent volume threshold for U.S. Treasury Securities to
comply with Regulation SCI. Under this alternative, the Commission believes that the smaller

1217 See supra Section VIII.C.1.c.
508
Government Securities ATSs subject to Rule 301(b)(6) would incur significantly lower
compliance costs, as compared to the proposal, where these smaller Government Securities ATSs
would be subject to Regulation SCI.
1218 To the extent that Government Securities ATSs pass on
the additional compliance costs associated with Rule 301(b)(6) or Regulation ATS to their
subscribers, the Commission believes that the trading costs for subscribers to these smaller
Government Securities ATSs would be smaller, as compared to the proposal. Furthermore, the
lower compliance costs of this alternative incurred by smaller Government Securities ATSs
could lower barriers to entry in the market for government securities trading services and
increase competition compared to the proposal, which could also result in lower trading costs for
market participants.
5. Alter the Volume Thresholds for the Fair Access Rule
Another alternative for the Commission is to alter the volume thresholds for the Fair
Access Rule.1219 A higher aggregate volume threshold for the Fair Access Rule would result in a
smaller number of ATSs and Communication Protocol Systems that are subject to the Fair
Access Rule than under the proposal. With fewer ATSs and Communication Protocol Systems
subject to the Fair Access Rule, some market participants may not be able to trade on as many
ATSs and Communication Protocol Systems as they could have under the proposal, which could
result in these market participants experiencing higher trading costs or worse execution quality
than they would under the proposal. With a higher aggregate volume threshold for the Fair
Access Rule, fewer ATSs and Communication Protocol Systems would incur compliance costs
discussed in Section VIII.C.2.a to comply with the Fair Access Rule than under the proposal.

1218 See supra Section VIII.C.2.a.
1219 See supra Sections VII.D.1.b and VIII.C.2.a for estimates of the number of additional
trading venues that would be subject to the Fair Access Rule under the proposal.
509
This could lower the barriers to entry for new ATSs compared to the proposal.1220 Additionally,
a higher aggregate volume threshold could result in fewer broker-dealers shutting down some of
their ATSs to avoid being subject to the Fair Access Rule compared to the proposal.
1221 Both
lower barriers to entry and fewer ATSs exiting the market could increase competition compared
to the proposal, resulting in lower trading costs for market participants. Since the aggregate
volume threshold would be higher, broker-dealers operators would be less likely to restrict
trading in certain securities in one or more of their systems in order to avoid the requirements of
the Fair Access Rule. This would cause less order flow to be absorbed and redistributed amongst
other trading venues, which could result in lower trading costs compared to the proposal,
especially if the sole provider of a niche service is less likely to limit the trading in certain
securities.
A lower aggregate volume threshold for the Fair Access Rule would cause a greater
number of small ATSs and Communication Protocol Systems to be subject to the Fair Access
Rule compared to the proposal. This would allow market participants that currently may be
restricted in their access to access a greater number of ATSs and Communication Protocol
Systems and provide them with more options in the selection of trading venues than under the
proposal. Thus, compared to the proposal, these market participants could better access the
trading venue that best meets their trading objectives, which result in the experiencing lower
trading costs. With a lower aggregate volume threshold for the Fair Access Rule, ATSs and
Communication Protocol Systems would incur greater compliance costs discussed in Section
VIII.C.2.a to comply with the Fair Access Rule than under the proposal, which could increase

1220 The Commission believes that this would lower the barriers to entry compared to the
proposal for both new ATSs that are the sole ATS operated by a broker-dealer, as well as
new ATSs that are operated by a broker-dealer or affiliated broker-dealers that already
operate one or more ATSs.
1221 See supra Sections VIII.C.2.a.iv and VIII.C.3.a.i.e.
510
the barriers to entry for new ATSs. Additionally, a lower aggregate volume threshold for the
Fair Access Rule could cause a greater number of small ATSs and Communication Protocol
Systems to exit the market for trading services compared to the proposal. Both higher barriers to
entry and more ATSs shutting down could result in less competition compared to the proposal,
which could result in market participants facing higher trading costs. Broker-dealers operators
that are near the lower volume threshold would be more likely to restrict trading in one or more
of their systems in order to avoid the requirements of the Fair Access Rule. This would result in
more order flow being absorbed and redistributed amongst other trading venues compared to the
proposal, which could result in higher trading costs, especially if the sole provider of a niche
service is more likely to limit the trading in certain securities.
6. Alter the Government Securities ATS Volume Thresholds for Regulation
SCI
Another alternative for the Commission is to alter the Government Securities ATS
volume thresholds for Regulation SCI.1222 A higher volume threshold for Regulation SCI would
result in a smaller number of Government Securities ATSs being subject to Regulation SCI than
under the proposal. Compared to the proposal, this could result in the establishment of less
robust systems in Government Securities ATSs that would be subject to Regulation SCI under
the proposal but fall below the higher volume threshold. This may increase the duration and
severity of any system distributions, and result in more system issues occurring on these
Government Securities ATSs, which may, in turn, cause more interruptions in the price
discovery process and liquidity flows and increase the occurrence of periods with pricing
inefficiencies compared to the proposal.1223 With a higher volume threshold for Regulation SCI,

1222 See supra Sections VII.D.6 and VIII.C.2.a for estimates of the number of additional
trading venues that would be subject to Regulation SCI under the proposal.
1223 See supra Section VIII.C.1.c.
511
the Commission believes that a smaller number of Government Securities ATSs would incur
compliance costs discussed in Section VIII.C.2.a to comply with Regulation SCI requirements
than under the proposal. This could lower barriers to entry in the market for government
securities execution services compared to the proposal, which could increase competition,
resulting in lower trading costs or better execution quality for investors. Compared to the
proposal, a higher volume threshold for Regulation SCI could also lead to less Government
Securities ATSs restricting trading in certain government securities on their platform in order to
stay below the volume threshold. This would cause less order flow to be absorbed and
redistributed amongst other trading venues, which could result in lower trading costs compared
to the proposal, especially if the sole provider of a niche service is less likely to limit the trading
in certain securities.
A lower volume threshold for Regulation SCI would result in a larger number of
Government Securities ATSs being subject to Regulation SCI than under the proposal.
Compared to the proposal, a lower volume threshold for Regulation SCI likely would promote
the establishment of more robust systems, help reduce the duration and severity of any system
distributions, and help prevent system issues from occurring on smaller Government Securities
ATSs that met the lower volume thresholds. This, in turn, could help prevent interruptions in the
price discovery process and liquidity flows and thus may reduce the chance of periods with
pricing inefficiencies occurring compared to the proposal. With a lower volume threshold for
Regulation SCI, more Government Securities ATSs would incur compliance costs discussed in
Section VIII.C.2.a to comply with Regulation SCI requirements than under the proposal, which
could increase the barriers to entry for new Government Securities ATSs. This could decrease
competition, resulting in higher trading costs or worse execution quality for investors compared
to the proposal. Compared to the proposal, a lower volume threshold for Regulation SCI could
also lead to more Government Securities ATSs restricting trading in certain government
512
securities on their platform in order to stay below the volume threshold. This would cause more
order flow to be absorbed and redistributed amongst other trading venues, which could result in
higher trading costs compared to the proposal, especially if the sole provider of a niche service is
more likely to limit the trading in certain securities.
7. Exclude Communication Protocol Systems from the Definition of
“Exchange” but Require Them to Register as Broker-Dealers
The proposed amendments to Exchange Act Rule 3b-16 would require Communication
Protocol Systems to either register as an exchange or register as a broker-dealer and comply with
Regulation ATS.1224 As an alternative, the Commission could require Communication Protocol
Systems to register as broker-dealers, but continue to exclude them from the definition of
“exchange” under Rule 3b-16, and thus, the requirements of Regulation ATS and Regulation
SCI.
1225 Under this alternative, operators of Communication Protocol Systems would still need
to register as broker-dealers with the Commission and FINRA, so they would still be subject to
Commission and FINRA inspections and examinations. However, the benefits of enhanced
regulatory oversight and investor protection would be less than in the proposal because
Communication Protocol Systems would not be subject to the additional reports and
requirements of Regulation ATS, which include having to report additional information to the
Commission on Form ATS and Form ATR, or, if applicable, Form ATS-N.1226

1224 As discussed above, Communication Protocol Systems function similarly to exchanges as
market places and that including them within the definition of “exchange”, rather than
only subjecting them to the requirements of broker-dealers, would appropriately regulate
a market place that brings together buyers and sellers of securities. See supra Section II.
1225 The Commission assumes that, under the proposed amendments, Communication
Protocol Systems would choose to register as broker-dealers and comply with Regulation
ATS, rather than register as national securities exchanges. See supra note 1056 and
accompanying text.
1226 See supra Section VIII.C.1.a.
513
Additionally, compared to the proposal, the reduction in market participant trading costs
and improvements in their execution quality would not be as large because Communication
Protocol Systems that trade government securities or NMS stocks would not be required to file
and publicly disclose Form ATS-N and because significant Communication Protocol Systems
would not be subject to the Fair Access Rule.
1227 Furthermore, because significant
Communication Protocol Systems would not be subject to Regulation SCI or Rule 301(b)(6) of
Regulation ATS, the enhancements to the price discovery process and liquidity in securities
markets would be reduced relative to the proposal.
1228
Under this alternative, Communications Protocol Systems would still incur the costs of
registering as a broker-dealer, but would not incur the additional costs associated with
Regulation ATS, including the costs associated with the Fair Access Rule and Regulation SCI
and Rule 301(b)(6).
1229 This could result in less Communication Protocol Systems exiting the
market and create lower barriers to entry for new Communication Protocol Systems compared to
the proposal, which, relative to the proposal, could increase competition. Increased competition,
in turn, could lower market participant trading costs and increase innovation among
Communication Protocol Systems relative to the proposal. Since significant Communication
Protocol Systems would not be subject to the Fair Access Rule or Regulation SCI and Capacity,
Integrity, and Security Rule, Communication Protocol Systems would not have an incentive to
restrict trading volume in certain securities to avoid reaching the volume threshold associated

1227 See supra Section VIII.C.1.b. Under this alternative, significant Communication Protocol
Systems in the NMS stock market would also not be required to display their best quotes
in the SIP, because they would not be subject to the order display and execution access
requirements of Rule 301(b)(3) of Regulation ATS.
1228 See supra Section VIII.C.1.c.
1229 See supra Section VIII.C.2.
514
with these rules. This could cause less order flow to be absorbed and redistributed amongst other
trading venues, which could result in lower trading costs compared to the proposal, especially if
a Communication Protocol System that is the sole provider of a niche service is less likely to
limit the trading in certain securities.
1230
8. Require Forms ATS-N, ATS, and ATS-R to be Submitted in Inline XBRL
The proposal would require Government Securities ATSs to file Form ATS-N, which is
submitted in ATS-N-specific XML. In addition, the proposal would require confidential Forms
ATS and ATS-R, which are currently submitted as paper documents, to be submitted to the
Commission electronically via EDGAR in unstructured HTML or ASCII.1231 As an alternative,
the Commission might require Form ATS-N, as well as Forms ATS and ATS-R, to be submitted
in the Inline eXtensible Business Reporting Language (“Inline XBRL”) data language. Inline
XBRL is a derivation of XML that is designed for business reporting information and is both
machine-readable and human-readable.1232 This alternative might include numerical detail
tagging of quantitative disclosures (e.g., platform-wide statistics) and text block tagging for
narrative disclosures (e.g., trade reporting arrangements).1233 Compared to the proposal, the
Inline XBRL alternative for Forms ATS-N, ATS, and ATS-R would provide more sophisticated

1230 See supra Section VIII.C.2.b.
1231 See supra Section V.B. The EDGAR system generally requires filers to use ASCII or
HTML for their document submissions, subject to certain exceptions. See Regulation ST, 17 CFR 232.101(a)(1)(iv); 17 CFR 232.301; EDGAR Filer Manual (Volume II)
version 60 (December 2021), at 5-1.
1232 Such a requirement would be implemented by revising Regulation S-T (17 CFR part 232)
and including an Instruction to Forms ATS-N, ATS, and ATS-R which cites to
Regulation S-T. In conjunction with the EDGAR Filer Manual, Regulation S-T governs
the electronic submission of documents filed with the Commission. Modifying a
structured data language requirement for a Commission filing or series of filings can
generally be accomplished through changes to Regulation S-T, and would not require
dispersed changes to the various rules and forms that would be impacted by the data
language modification.
1233 See supra Sections IV.D.4.y and IV.D.4.t.
515
validation, presentation, and reference features for filers and data users. However, the Inline
XBRL alternative would also impose initial implementation costs (e.g., training staff to prepare
filings in Inline XBRL, licensing Inline XBRL filing preparation software) upon filers that do
not have prior experience structuring data in the Inline XBRL data language. By contrast,
because Form ATS-N may be filed using a fillable web form, filers that lack experience
structuring data in EDGAR Form-specific XML would not incur technical implementation costs
related to filing Form ATS-N under the proposal.
9. Require the Content of Form ATS-N to be Posted on Individual ATS
Websites
Under the proposal, Form ATS-N would be filed on the EDGAR system. Alternatively,
the Commission might require the content of Form ATS-N to be posted on the individual ATSs’
websites. Requiring the content of Form ATS-N to be posted on the individual ATSs’ websites
rather than EDGAR would impose additional direct costs on data users, who would need to
navigate to and manually retrieve data from different ATSs’ websites to aggregate, compare, and
analyze the data. In addition, individual websites would not provide the validation capabilities
that an EDGAR requirement would enable, and would thus, impose on data users the indirect
costs associated with lower reliability of the data. An individual website requirement would
provide a small benefit to bank-operated Government Securities ATSs relative to the proposal’s
EDGAR requirement, as those entities would not be required to incur the $50 compliance cost of
submitting a Form ID to begin making EDGAR filings.1234
E. Request for Comments
The Commission is sensitive to the potential economic effects, including costs and
benefits, of the proposed Rule. The Commission has identified certain costs and benefits

1234 See supra Section VIII.C.2.a.i. The Commission estimates that one Currently Exempted
Government Securities ATS is operated by a bank. See supra Section VII.C.1.
516
associated with the proposal and requests comment on all aspects of its preliminary economic
analysis, including with respect to the specific questions below. The Commission encourages
commenters to identify, discuss, analyze, and supply relevant data, information, or statistics
regarding any such costs or benefits.
177. Do you agree with the Commission's characterization of the relevant baseline
against which it considered the effects of the proposed amendments?
178. Do you agree with the Commission's characterization of Communication Protocol
Systems? Please provide any relevant details that you believe are missing from the
Commission's description.
179. Do you agree with the Commission's characterization of the current state of the
government securities market?
180. Do you agree that PTFs provide liquidity to Government Securities ATSs?
181. Do you agree that trading in the Treasury securities market is concentrated in a
few large ATSs? Please provide data to support your position.
182. The Commission invites comment on the role of PTFs in trading Agency
Securities. The Commission also requests comment on the providers of liquidity in the market
for Agency Securities.
183. Do you agree with the Commission's characterization of the regulatory
environment for Government Securities ATSs? Please provide any details you feel are relevant
to understanding the impact of the variation in regulation across different ATSs in this market.
Also, do you agree that the differences in regulation across different entities providing trading
services in this market has placed some of them at a competitive disadvantage?
184. Please provide any additional details you feel are relevant to the role of
Communication Protocol Systems in the government securities market.
517
185. Do you agree with the Commission's characterization of the role played by the
RFQ indicative quote streams? Please provide any details you feel are important to
understanding their role in the market.
186. Do you agree with the Commission's characterization of the competition baseline
for government securities trading services?
187. Do you agree with the Commission's characterization of the state of the corporate
debt market? Please provide any additional details you believe are relevant to understanding this
market.
188. Do you agree with the Commission's description of the implications of the
difference in regulation for Communication Protocol Systems compared to ATSs in the corporate
debt market?
189. Do you agree with the Commission's description of the competition baseline for
providing trading services in the corporate debt market? Do you agree with the Commission's
characterization of the role of the existing regulatory regime in creating the current competitive
environment?
190. Do you agree with the Commission's description of the municipal debt market?
191. Do you agree with the Commission's description of broker's brokers and their role
in the municipal bond market? Please provide any details you feel are necessary to fully
understanding this point.
192. The Commission requests any information pertaining to the role of
Communication Protocol Systems in the market for municipal debt generally.
193. Do you agree with the Commission’s description of the equity market? In
particular, please provide any additional details you feel are relevant to understanding the role of
Communication Protocol Systems in this market.
518
194. The Commission requests comment on the extent to which Communication
Protocol Systems are used in the non-ATS OTC market for NMS stocks.
195. The Commission lacks the data to estimate the number or trading volume of
IDQS or other OTC equity trading systems that operate Communication Protocol Systems and
are not registered as ATSs or with FINRA, and requests comment on this topic.
196. Do you agree with the Commission's description of the options market?
197. The Commission requests comment on the full role of Communication Protocol
Systems in the market for listed options.
198. Do you agree with the Commission's description of the market for repurchase and
reverse repurchase agreements?
199. The Commission requests comment on the full role of Communication Protocol
Systems in the market for repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements.
200. Do you agree with the Commission's description of the market for asset-backed
securities?
201. The Commission requests comment on the full role of Communication Protocol
Systems in the asset-backed securities market.
202. The Commission requests comment on whether Communication Protocol Systems
play a role in the trading of to-be-announced mortgage-backed securities.
203. The Commission requests comment on whether Communication Protocol Systems
play a role in asset classes besides those discussed in Section VIII.B, and on what role they play
in those asset classes.
204. Do you agree that the proposed amendments would enhance regulatory oversight
and investor protection? Do you agree that requiring Communication Protocol Systems to
register as broker-dealers would help lead to these benefits? Do you believe that the proposed
amendments would lead to improvements in the safeguarding of confidential information?
519
205. Do you agree that the proposed amendments would reduce trading costs and
improve execution quality for market participants? Do you agree that Regulation SCI would
improve the resiliency of the systems that provide trading services in the government securities
markets? Do you agree that Rule 301(b)(6) would improve the resiliency of systems in the
applicable securities markets?
206. Do you agree with the Commission’s assessment of the costs of the proposed
amendments? If not, please provide as many quantitative estimates to support your position on
costs as possible.
207. The Commission requests that commenters provide any insights or data they may
have on the costs associated with the proposed broker-dealer requirements for Communication
Protocol Systems that are operated by non-broker-dealers?
208. Are the initial implementation cost estimates for new and existing SCI entities and
the ongoing implementation cost estimates for all SCI entities under Regulation SCI largely
applicable to Government Securities ATSs? How would these costs vary between Current
Government Securities ATSs and Communication Protocol Systems that trade government
securities? Please explain.
209. Would Government Securities ATSs also incur direct compliance costs (non-PRA
based) as SCI entities? The Regulation SCI Adopting Release in 2014 estimated that an SCI
entity would incur an initial cost of between approximately $320,000 and $2.4 million.
Additionally, an SCI entity would incur an ongoing annual cost of between approximately
$213,600 and $1.6 million. Are these estimated costs applicable to Government Securities
ATSs? How might the actual level of costs Government Securities ATSs would incur differ
from the estimates in the Regulation SCI Adopting Release because they differ from existing SCI
entities? How might other factors, such as the complexity of SCI entities’ systems and the
degree to which SCI entities employ third-party systems, affect the estimated costs? How would
520
these costs vary between Current Government Securities ATSs and Communication Protocol
Systems that trade government securities? Please explain and provide cost estimates or a range
for cost estimates, if possible.
210. Do you agree with the Commission’s assessment of the indirect costs of applying
the Fair Access rule?
211. Do you agree that ATSs could break themselves up to stay below the volume
threshold for Regulation SCI? Please explain.
212. Do you agree with the Commission’s assessment of the impact of the proposed
amendments on efficiency, competition and capital formation? Do you agree that the proposed
amendments would allow for competition among trading systems on a more equal basis? Do
you agree with the Commission’s assessment as to the risks of increasing barriers to entry and
causing current trading systems to exit the market?
213. To what extent would the proposed amendments to Exchange Act Rule 3b-16 and
Regulation ATS increase the barriers to entry for new trading venues or cause some existing
trading venues to exit the market? How would these effects vary based on the size and/or type of
trading venue and the securities market in which it operates? Please explain in detail.
214. How would the proposed amendments affect innovation? Please explain. If so,
which provisions of the proposed amendments would affect innovation the most and how?
Please explain.
215. Do you agree with the Commission’s assessment of the effects of an alternative to
require Currently Exempted Government Securities ATSs and certain Communication Protocol
Systems to file a non-public Form ATS?
216. Do you agree with the Commission’s assessment of the effects of an alternative to
initiate differing levels of public disclosure depending on Government Securities ATS (inclusive
521
of a Communication Protocol System, as proposed) or other Communication Protocol System
dollar volume?
217. Do you agree with the Commission’s assessment of the effects of an alternative to
extend the transparency requirements of Regulation ATS to all ATSs and Communication
Protocol Systems?
218. Do you agree with the Commission’s assessment of the effects of an alternative to
apply Rule 301(b)(6) of Regulation ATS to Government Securities ATSs?
219. Do you agree with the Commission’s assessment of the effects of an alternative to
alter the volume thresholds for the Fair Access Rule?
220. Do you agree with the Commission’s assessment of the effects of an alternative to
alter the Government Securities ATS volume thresholds for Regulation SCI?
221. Do you agree with the Commission’s assessment of the effects of an alternative to
require Communication Protocol Systems to register as broker-dealers but exempt them from the
requirements of Rule 3b-16, Regulation ATS, and Regulation SCI?
222. Do you agree with the Commission’s assessment of the effects of an alternative to
require Forms ATS-N, ATS, and ATS-R to be submitted in Inline XBRL?
223. Do you agree with the Commission’s assessment of the effects of an alternative to
require the content of Form ATS-N to be posted on individual ATS websites?
224. How would the economic effects of the proposal differ if Forms ATS-N, ATS,
and ATS-R were proposed to be submitted using the Commission’s Electronic Form Filing
System/SRO Rule Tracking System (“EFFS/SRTS”)?
IX. Consideration of Impact on the Economy
522
For purposes of the Small Business Regulatory Enforcement Fairness Act of 1996,1235 the
Commission requests comment on the potential effect of the proposed amendments on the
United States economy on an annual basis. The Commission also requests comment on any
potential increases in costs or prices for consumers or individual industries, and any potential
effect on competition, investment, or innovation. Commenters are requested to provide
empirical data and other factual support for their views to the extent possible.
X. Regulatory Flexibility Act Certification
Section 3(a) of the Regulatory Flexibility Act of 19801236 (“RFA”) requires the
Commission to undertake an initial regulatory flexibility analysis of the impact of the proposed
rule amendments on small entities unless the Commission certifies that the rule, if adopted,
would not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities.1237 For
purposes of Commission rulemaking in connection with the RFA,1238 a small entity includes a
broker or dealer that: (1) Had total capital (net worth plus subordinated liabilities) of less than
$500,000 on the date in the prior fiscal year as of which its audited financial statements were
prepared pursuant to 17 CFR 240.17a-5(d) (Rule 17a-5(d) under the Exchange Act),1239 or, if not
required to file such statements, a broker-dealer with total capital (net worth plus subordinated
liabilities) of less than $500,000 on the last day of the preceding fiscal year (or in the time that it

1235 5 U.S.C. 603.
1236 5 U.S.C. 603(a).
1237 5 U.S.C. 605(b).
1238 Although Section 601(b) of the RFA defines the term “small entity,” the statute permits
agencies to formulate their own definitions. The Commission has adopted definitions for
the term “small entity” for the purposes of Commission rulemaking in accordance with
the RFA. Those definitions, as relevant to this proposed rulemaking, are set forth in Rule
0-10 under the Exchange Act, 17 CFR 240.0-10. See Securities Exchange Act Release
No. 18451 (January 28, 1982), 47 FR 5215 (February 4, 1982) (File No. AS-305).
1239 17 CFR 240.17a-5(d).
523
has been in business, if shorter); and (2) is not affiliated with any person (other than a natural
person) that is not a small business or small organization.1240
All Government Securities ATSs would be required to register as broker-dealers,
including those that are currently exempt from such requirement.1241 In addition, all
Communications Protocol Systems that choose to comply with Regulation ATS in lieu of
exchange registration will be required to register as broker-dealers.1242 The Commission
examined recent FOCUS data for the 17 broker-dealers that currently operate Legacy
Government Securities ATSs and concluded that 1 of the broker-dealer operators of these ATSs
had total capital of less than $500,000 on the last day of the preceding fiscal year (or in the time
that it has been in business, if shorter). The Commission notes that this broker-dealer operator
has never reported any transaction volume in any government security or repo to the
Commission on Form ATS-R. Given that this ATS has never reported any transaction volume in
government securities to the Commission, the Commission believes that this ATSs is unlikely to
submit a Form ATS-N if the proposed amendments to Regulation ATS are adopted.1243 The

1240 See 17 CFR 240.0-10(c). See also 17 CFR 240.0-10(i) (providing that a broker or dealer
is affiliated with another person if: such broker or dealer controls, is controlled by, or is
under common control with such other person; a person shall be deemed to control
another person if that person has the right to vote 25 percent or more of the voting
securities of such other person or is entitled to receive 25 percent or more of the net
profits of such other person or is otherwise able to direct or cause the direction of the
management or policies of such other person; or such broker or dealer introduces
transactions in securities, other than registered investment company securities or interests
or participations in insurance company separate accounts, to such other person, or
introduces accounts of customers or other brokers or dealers, other than accounts that
hold only registered investment company securities or interests or participations in
insurance company separate accounts, to such other person that carries such accounts on
a fully disclosed basis).
1241 See supra Section III.B.2. See also 17 CFR 242.301(b)(1).
1242 See supra Section II.D.2.
1243 In order to be as inclusive as is reasonable, the Commission is nevertheless counting this
ATS for purposes of projecting expected costs under the PRA.
524
Commission has recently examined recent FOCUS data for 4 broker-dealers that the
Commission estimates are Currently Exempted Government Securities ATSs and concluded that
none of the broker-dealer operators of ATSs that currently trade government securities had total
capital of less than $500,000 on the last day of the preceding fiscal year (or in the time that it has
been in business, if shorter). The Commission has also recently examined recent FOCUS data
for 7 systems that the Commission estimates are Communication Protocol Systems operated by
broker-dealers or affiliates of broker-dealers and trade various securities asset classes including,
among others, government securities. The Commission concluded that none of these brokerdealer operators of ATSs had total capital of less than $500,000 on the last day of the preceding
fiscal year (or in the time that it has been in business, if shorter). Consequently, the Commission
certifies that the proposed amendments to Regulation ATS would not, if adopted, have a
significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities.
The Commission encourages written comments regarding this certification. The
Commission solicits comment as to whether the proposed amendments could have impacts on
small entities that have not been considered. The Commission requests that commenters
describe the nature of any impacts on small entities and provide empirical data to support the
extent of such effect. Such comments will be placed in the same public file as comments on the
proposed amendments to Regulation ATS. Persons wishing to submit written comments should
refer to the instructions for submitting comments in the front of this release.
XI. Statutory Authority and Text of Proposed Amendments
Pursuant to Exchange Act, 15 U.S.C. 78a et seq., and particularly Sections 3(b), 5, 6,
11A, 15, 15C, 17(a), 17(b), 19, 23(a), and 36 thereof (15 U.S.C. 78c(b), 78e, 78f, 78o, 78o -5,
78q(a), 78q(b), 78s, 78w(a), and 78mm), the Commission proposes amendments to Form ATS-N
under the Exchange Act, Regulation ATS under the Exchange Act, and 17 CFR parts 232, 240,
242, and 249.
525
List of Subjects in 17 CFR Parts 232, 240, 242, and 249
Administrative practices and procedure, Brokers, Confidential business information,
Fraud, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Securities.
For the reasons stated in the preamble, title 17, chapter II of the Code of Federal
Regulations is proposed to be amended as follows:
PART 232–REGULATION S-T–GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS FOR
ELECTRONIC FILINGS
1. The general authority citation for part 232 continues to read as follows:
Authority: 15 U.S.C. 77c, 77f, 77g, 77h, 77j, 77s(a), 77z-3, 77sss(a), 78c(b), 78l, 78m,
78n, 78o(d), 78w(a), 78ll, 80a-6(c), 80a-8, 80a-29, 80a-30, 80a-37, 7201 et seq.; and 18 U.S.C.
1350, unless otherwise noted.
* * * * *
2. Amend § 232.101 by:
a. Removing the periods at the end of paragraphs (a)(1)(xiii) and (xiv) and adding
semicolons in their places;
b. Removing the word “and” at the end of paragraphs (a)(1)(xviii) and (xix);
c. Removing the periods at the end of paragraphs (a)(1)(xx) and (xxi) and adding
semicolons in their places; and
d. Adding paragraphs (a)(1)(xxii) and (xxiii).
The additions read as follows:
§ 232.101 Mandated electronic submissions and exceptions.
(a) * * *
(1) * * *
(xxii) Form ATS (§ 249.637 of this chapter); and
526
(xxiii) Form ATS-R (§ 249.638 of this chapter).
* * * * *
PART 240–GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS, SECURITIES ACT OF 1934
3. The general authority citation for part 240 continues to read as follows:
Authority: 15 U.S.C. 77c, 77d, 77g, 77j, 77s, 77z-2, 77z-3, 77eee, 77ggg, 77nnn, 77sss,
77ttt, 78c, 78c-3, 78c-5, 78d, 78e, 78f, 78g, 78i, 78j, 78j-1, 78k, 78k-1, 78l, 78m, 78n, 78n-1,
78o, 78o-4, 78o-10, 78p, 78q, 78q-1, 78s, 78u-5, 78w, 78x, 78dd, 78ll, 78mm, 80a-20, 80a-23,
80a-29, 80a-37, 80b-3, 80b-4, 80b-11, and 7201 et seq., and 8302; 7 U.S.C. 2(c)(2)(E); 12 U.S.C.
5221(e)(3); 18 U.S.C. 1350; Pub. L. 111-203, 939A, 124 Stat. 1376 (2010); and Pub. L. 112-106,
sec. 503 and 602, 126 Stat. 326 (2012), unless otherwise noted.
* * * * *
4. Amend § 240.3b-16 by:
a. Revising paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) and (b)(1) and (2);
b. Adding paragraph (b)(3);
c. Redesignating paragraph (e) as paragraph (f); and
d. Adding new paragraph (e).
The revisions and additions read as follows:
§ 240.3b-16 Definitions of terms used in Section 3(a)(1) of the Act.
(a) * * *
(1) Brings together buyers and sellers of securities using trading interest; and
(2) Makes available established, non-discretionary methods (whether by providing a trading
facility or communication protocols, or by setting rules) under which buyers and sellers can
interact and agree to the terms of a trade.
(b) * * *
527
(1) Routes trading interest to a national securities exchange, a market operated by a national
securities association, or a broker-dealer for execution;
(2) Allows persons to enter trading interest for execution against the bids and offers of a single
dealer; and
(i) As an incidental part of these activities, matches trading interest that is not displayed to any
person other than the dealer and its employees; or
(ii) In the course of acting as a market maker registered with a self-regulatory organization,
displays the limit orders of such market maker’s, or other broker-dealer’s, customers; and
(A) Matches customer orders with such displayed limit orders; and
(B) As an incidental part of its market making activities, crosses or matches orders that are not
displayed to any person other than the market maker and its employees; or
(3) Allows an issuer to sell its securities to investors.
* * * * *
(e) For purposes of this section, the term trading interest means an order as the term is defined
under paragraph (c) of this section or any non-firm indication of a willingness to buy or sell a
security that identifies at least the security and either quantity, direction (buy or sell), or price.
* * * * *
PART 242–REGULATIONS M, SHO, ATS, AC, NMS, AND SBSR AND CUSTOMER
MARGIN REQUIREMENTS FOR SECURITY FUTURES
5. The authority citation for part 242 continues to read as follows:
Authority: 15 U.S.C. 77g, 77q(a), 77s(a), 78b, 78c, 78g(c)(2), 78i(a), 78j, 78k-1(c), 78l,
78m, 78n, 78o(b), 78o(c), 78o(g), 78q(a), 78q(b), 78q(h), 78w(a), 78dd-1, 78mm, 80a-23, 80a29, and 80a-37.
6. Amend § 242.300 by:
528
a. In paragraph (b), removing “orders” and adding in its place “trading interest”;
b. Revising paragraph (c);
c. Adding a sentence at the end of paragraph (k); and
d. Adding paragraphs (l) through (s).
The revision and additions read as follows:
§ 242.300 Definitions.
* * * * *
(c) Affiliate means, with respect to a specified person, any person that, directly or
indirectly, controls, is under common control with, or is controlled by, the specified person.
* * * * *
(k) * * * An NMS Stock ATS shall not trade securities other than NMS stocks.
(l) Government Securities ATS means an alternative trading system, as defined in
paragraph (a) of this section, that trades government securities, as defined in section 3(a)(42) of
the Act (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(42)) or repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements on government
securities. A Government Securities ATS shall not trade securities other than government
securities or repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements on government securities.
(m) Covered ATS means an NMS Stock ATS or Government Securities ATS, as
applicable.
(n) Legacy Government Securities ATS means a Government Securities ATS
operating as of [effective date of the final rule] that was either:
(1) Formerly not required to comply with this section and §§ 242.301 through 242.304
(Regulation ATS) pursuant to the exemption under § 240.3a1-1(a)(3) of this chapter prior to
[effective date of the final rule]; or
(2) Operating pursuant to an initial operation report on Form ATS on file with the
Commission as of [effective date of the final rule].
529
(o) U.S. Treasury Security means a security issued by the U.S. Department of the
Treasury.
(p) Agency Security means a debt security issued or guaranteed by a U.S. executive
agency, as defined in 5 U.S.C. 105, or government-sponsored enterprise, as defined in 2 U.S.C.
622(8).
(q) Trading Interest means an order, as defined in paragraph (e) of this section, or any
non-firm indication of a willingness to buy or sell a security that identifies at least the security
and either quantity, direction (buy or sell), or price.
(r) Newly Designated ATS means an alternative trading system operating as of
[effective date of the final rule] that meets the criteria under § 240.3b-16(a) of this chapter as of
[effective date of the final rule] but did not meet the criteria under § 240.3b-16(a) of this chapter
in effect prior to [effective date of the final rule].
(s) Covered Newly Designated ATS means a Newly Designated ATS that is a
Government Securities ATS or NMS Stock ATS.
7. Amend § 242.301 by:
a. Removing and reserving paragraphs (a)(4)(ii)(A) through (C);
b. Revising paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2)(i);
c. In paragraph (b)(2)(vi), adding the words “and information filed pursuant to
paragraph (b)(9) of this section” after the words “pursuant to this paragraph (b)(2)”;
d. Revising paragraphs (b)(2)(vii) and (viii) and (b)(5)(i) introductory text;
e. In paragraph (b)(5)(i)(A), adding the word “share” after the phrase “average
daily”;
f. In paragraph (b)(5)(i)(B), adding the word “share” after the phrase “average daily
trading”;
g. In paragraph (b)(5)(i)(C):
530
i. Adding the word “dollar” after the phrase “average daily”;
ii. Adding the phrase “as provided by the self-regulatory organization to which such
transactions are reported” after the phrase “in the United States”; and
iii. Removing the word “or” at the end of the paragraph;
h. In paragraph (b)(5)(i)(D):
i. Adding the word “dollar” after the phrase “average daily”;
ii. Adding the phrase “as provided by self-regulatory organizations to which such
transactions are reported” after the phrase “in the United States”; and
iii. Removing the period and adding a semicolon in its place;
i. Adding paragraphs (b)(5)(i)(E), (F), and (G);
j. Removing paragraph (b)(5)(iii);
k. Redesignating paragraph (b)(5)(ii) as paragraph (b)(5)(iii) and revising the newly
redesignated paragraph;
l. Adding new paragraph (b)(5)(ii);
m. In paragraphs (b)(6)(i)(A) and (B), adding the word “dollar” after the phrase
“average daily”;
n. Removing paragraph (b)(6)(iii);
o. In paragraph (b)(9)(i):
i. Removing the words “Separately file” and adding “File” in their place; and
ii. Removing the phrase “for transactions in NMS stocks, as defined in paragraph (g)
of this section, and transactions in securities other than NMS stocks”;
p. In paragraph (b)(9)(ii):
i. Removing the words “Separately file” and adding “File” in their place; and
ii. Removing the phrase “for transactions in NMS stocks and transactions in
securities other than NMS stocks”.
531
The revisions and additions read as follows:
§ 242.301 Requirements for alternative trading systems.
* * * * *
(b) * * *
(1) Broker-dealer registration. The alternative trading system shall register as a brokerdealer under section 15 of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78o) or section 15C(a)(1)(A) of the Act (15 U.S.C.
78o-5(a)(1)(A)). Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, provided that it complies with the
applicable conditions in § 240.3a1-1(a)(2) of this chapter, an alternative trading system that is
not registered as a broker-dealer and is either:
(i) A Legacy Government Securities ATS that was formerly not required to comply with
§§ 242.300 through 242.304 (Regulation ATS) pursuant to the exemption under § 240.3a1-
1(a)(3) of this chapter prior to [effective date of the final rule]; or
(ii) A Newly Designated ATS, may provisionally operate pursuant to the exemption
under § 240.3a1-1(a)(2) of this chapter, until the earlier of:
(A) The date the alternative trading system registers as a broker-dealer under
section 15 of the Act or section 15C(a)(1)(A) of the Act and becomes a member of a
national securities association; or
(B) [date 210 calendar days after the effective date of the final rule].
(2) * * *
(i) The alternative trading system (other than a Covered ATS) shall file an initial
operation report on Form ATS, § 249.637 of this chapter, in accordance with the instructions
therein, at least 20 days prior to commencing operation as an alternative trading system.
Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, a Newly Designated ATS (other than a Covered Newly
Designated ATS) shall file an initial operation report on Form ATS, in accordance with the
instructions therein, no later than [date 30 calendar days after the effective date of the final rule].
532
* * * * *
(vii) An ATS must file a Form ATS or Form ATS-R in accordance with the instructions
therein. The reports provided for in paragraphs (b)(2) and (9) of this section shall be filed on
Form ATS or Form ATS-R, as applicable, and include all information as prescribed in Form
ATS or Form ATS-R, as applicable, and the instructions thereto. Any such document shall be
executed at, or prior to, the time Form ATS or Form ATS-R is filed and shall be retained by the
ATS in accordance with § 242.303 and § 232.302 of this chapter, and the instructions in Form
ATS or Form ATS-R, as applicable. Duplicates of the reports provided for in paragraphs
(b)(2)(i) through (v) of this section must be filed with surveillance personnel designated as such
by any self-regulatory organization that is the designated examining authority for the alternative
trading system pursuant to § 240.17d-1 of this chapter simultaneously with filing with the
Commission. Duplicates of the reports required by paragraph (b)(9) of this section shall be
provided to surveillance personnel of such self-regulatory authority upon request. All reports
filed pursuant to this paragraph (b)(2) and paragraph (b)(9) of this section (except for types of
securities traded provided on Form ATS and Form ATS-R) will be accorded confidential
treatment subject to applicable law.
(viii) A Legacy Government Securities ATS operating pursuant to an initial operation
report on Form ATS on file with the Commission as of [effective date of the final rule] shall be
subject to the requirements of paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (vii) of this section until that ATS
files an initial Form ATS-N with the Commission pursuant to § 242.304(a)(1)(iv)(A).
Thereafter, the Legacy Government Securities ATS shall file reports pursuant to § 242.304 and
shall not be subject to the requirements of paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (vii) of this section. A
Legacy Government Securities ATS that was formerly not required to comply with Regulation
ATS pursuant to the exemption under § 240.3a1-1(a)(3) of this chapter prior to [effective date of
the final rule], or a Covered Newly Designated ATS, shall file reports pursuant to § 242.304 and
533
shall not be subject to the requirements of paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (vii) of this section. As
of [effective date of the final rule], an entity seeking to operate as a Government Securities ATS
shall not be subject to the requirements of paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (vii) of this section and
shall file reports pursuant to § 242.304. An NMS Stock ATS or entity seeking to operate as an
NMS Stock ATS shall not be subject to the requirements of paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (vii) of
this section and shall file reports pursuant to § 242.304. An ATS that is not a Covered ATS shall
be subject to paragraph (b)(2) of this section. Each Covered ATS that is operated by a brokerdealer that is the registered broker-dealer for more than one ATS must comply with Regulation
ATS, including the filing requirements of § 242.304.
* * * * *
(5) Fair access. (i) An alternative trading system shall comply with the requirements
in paragraph (b)(5)(iii) of this section, if during at least 4 of the preceding 6 calendar months,
such alternative trading system had:
* * * * *
(E) With respect to U.S. Treasury Securities, 3 percent or more of the average weekly dollar
volume traded in the United States as provided by the self-regulatory organization to which such
transactions are reported; or
(F) With respect to Agency Securities, 5 percent or more of the average daily dollar volume
traded in the United States as provided by the self-regulatory organization to which such
transactions are reported.
(G) Provided, however, that a Newly Designated ATS or Legacy Government Securities
ATS shall not be required to comply with the requirements in paragraph (b)(5)(iii) of this section
until one month after initially satisfying any of the paragraphs (b)(5)(i)(A) through (F) of this
section.
534
(ii) For purposes of calculating the volume thresholds of paragraph (b)(5)(i) of this section,
the average transaction volume for a security or security category of alternative trading systems
that are operated by a common broker-dealer, or alternative trading systems operated by
affiliated broker-dealers, will be aggregated.
(iii) An alternative trading system shall:
(A) Establish and apply reasonable written standards for granting, limiting, and denying
access to the services of the alternative trading system that, at a minimum:
(1) Provide the date that each standard is adopted, effective, and modified;
(2) Set forth any objective and quantitative criteria upon which each standard is based;
(3) Identify any differences in access to the services of the alternative trading system by an
applicant and current participants;
(4) Justify why each standard, including any differences in access to the services of the
alternative trading system, is fair and not unreasonably discriminatory; and
(5) Provide the information required by paragraphs (b)(5)(iii)(A)(1) through (4) of this
section about any standards for granting, limiting, or denying access to the alternative trading
system services that are performed by a person other than the broker-dealer operator.
(B) Make and keep records of:
(1) All grants of access including, for all participants, the reasons for granting such access
under the standards provided in paragraph (b)(5)(iii)(A) of this section; and
(2) All denials or limitations of access and reasons, for each applicant and participant, for
denying or limiting access to the services of the alternative trading system under the standards
provided in paragraph (b)(5)(iii)(A) of this section; and
(C) Report the information required on Form ATS-R (§ 249.638 of this chapter) regarding
grants, denials, and limitations of access.
* * * * *
535
§ 242.302 Recordkeeping requirements for alternative trading systems.
8. Amend § 242.302 by:
a. In the introductory text to paragraph (c), removing “order” and adding in its place
“trading interest”;
b. In paragraphs (c)(1), (3), (5), and (8) through (15), removing “order” wherever it
appears and adding in its place “trading interest”; and
c. In paragraph (c)(5), removing “a” before the phrase “buy or sell”.
§ 242.303 Record preservation requirements for alternative trading systems.
9. Amend § 242.303 by:
a. In paragraph (a)(1)(iii), adding “, including each version,” after the phrase “at least
one copy” and adding “written” before the word “standards”;
b. In paragraph (a)(1)(iv), adding “, including each version,” after the phrase “At least
one copy”; and
c. In paragraph (a)(1)(v), adding “, including each version,” after the phrase “At least
one copy”.
10. Amend § 242.304 by:
a. Revising the section heading;
b. In the introductory text to paragraph (a), removing “an NMS Stock ATS” and adding
in its place “a Covered ATS”;
c. In paragraphs (a)(1)(i) through (iii):
i. Removing “an NMS Stock ATS” wherever it appears and adding in its place “a
Covered ATS”; and
ii. Removing “NMS Stock ATS” wherever it appears and adding in its place “Covered
ATS”;
d. In paragraph (a)(1)(i), adding a sentence at the end of the paragraph;
536
e. In paragraph (a)(1)(ii)(A)(1), removing the phrase “the Form ATS-N is unusually
lengthy or raises novel or complex issues that require additional time for review” and adding in
its place “the Commission determines that a longer period is appropriate”;
f. In paragraph (a)(1)(ii)(B), removing the phrase “paragraphs (a)(2)(i)(B) and (C)” and
adding in its place “paragraphs (a)(2)(i)(B), (C), and (E)”;
g. In paragraph (a)(1)(iv):
i. Revising the paragraph heading; and
ii. Removing “Legacy NMS Stock ATS” wherever it appears and adding in its place
“Legacy Government Securities ATS or Covered Newly Designated ATS”;
h. Revising paragraph (a)(1)(iv)(A) introductory text;
i. In the introductory text to paragraph (a)(1)(iv)(B), removing “120” and adding in its
place “180”;
j. In paragraph (a)(1)(iv)(B)(1), removing “the initial Form ATS-N is unusually lengthy
or raises novel or complex issues that require additional time for review” and “initial 120-
calendar day” and adding in their places “the Commission determines that a longer period is
appropriate” and “initial 180-calendar day”, respectively;
k. In the introductory text to paragraph (a)(2)(i), removing “An NMS Stock ATS” and
adding “A Covered ATS” in its place;
l. In paragraph (a)(2)(i)(A), removing “except as provided by paragraph (a)(2)(i)(D) of
this section,” and “NMS Stock ATS” and adding in their places “or the length of any extended
review period pursuant to paragraph (a)(2)(ii)(A) of this section,” and “Covered ATS”,
respectively;
m. In paragraph (a)(2)(i)(B), removing “or (D)” and adding “(D), or (E)” in its place;
n. In paragraph (a)(2)(i)(C), removing “or” at the end of the paragraph;
o. In paragraph (a)(2)(i)(D):
537
i. Removing “Items 24 and 25” and “Order Display and Fair Access Amendment” and
adding in their places “Items 23 and 24” and “Contingent Amendment”, respectively; and
ii. Removing the period at the end of the paragraph and adding “; or” in its place;
p. Adding paragraph (a)(2)(i)(E);
q. Revising paragraph (a)(2)(ii);
r. In paragraphs (a)(3) and (4), (b), and (c):
i. Removing “An NMS Stock ATS” and “an NMS Stock ATS” and adding in their
places “A Covered ATS” and “a Covered ATS”, respectively; and
ii. Removing “NMS Stock ATS” wherever it appears and adding in its place “Covered
ATS”;
s. In paragraph (b)(2)(iii)(A):
i. Removing the colon at the end of the paragraph heading and adding a period in its
place; and
ii. Adding “, or any extended review period,” after “the expiration of the review period”;
t. In paragraph (b)(2)(iii)(B):
i. Revising the heading; and
ii. In the first sentence, removing “Updating, Correcting, and Order Display and Fair
Access Amendments” and adding “Updating, Correcting, Fee, and Contingent Amendments” in
its place.
The revisions and addition read as follows:
§ 242.304 Covered ATSs.
(a) * * *
(1) * * *
(i) * * * Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, a Legacy Government Securities ATS
that was formerly not required to comply with §§ 242.300 through 242.304 (Regulation ATS)
538
pursuant to the exemption under § 240.3a1-1(a)(3) of this chapter prior to [effective date of the
final rule] or Covered Newly Designated ATS, may continue to operate pursuant to the
exemption under § 240.3a1-1(a)(2) of this chapter until its initial Form ATS-N becomes
effective.
* * * * *
(iv) Transition for Legacy Government Securities ATSs and Covered Newly Designated
ATSs—(A) Initial Form ATS-N filing requirements. A Legacy Government Securities ATS or a
Covered Newly Designated ATS shall file with the Commission an initial Form ATS-N, in
accordance with the conditions of this section, no later than [date 90 calendar days after the
effective date of the final rule]. An initial Form ATS-N filed by a Legacy Government
Securities ATS operating pursuant to an initial operation report on Form ATS on file with the
Commission as of [effective date of the final rule] shall supersede and replace for purposes of the
exemption the previously filed Form ATS of the Legacy Government Securities ATS. A Legacy
Government Securities ATS or Covered Newly Designated ATS may operate, on a provisional
basis, pursuant to the filed initial Form ATS-N, and any amendments thereto, during the review
of the initial Form ATS-N by the Commission. An initial Form ATS-N filed by a Legacy
Government Securities ATS or Covered Newly Designated ATS, as amended, will become
effective, unless declared ineffective, upon the earlier of:
* * * * *
(2) * * *
(i) * * *
(E) No later than the date that the information required to be disclosed in Part III, Item
18 on Form ATS-N has become inaccurate or incomplete (“Fee Amendment”).
(ii) Commission review period; ineffectiveness determination. (A) The Commission
will, by order, declare ineffective any Form ATS-N amendment filed pursuant to paragraphs
539
(a)(2)(i)(A) through (E) of this section, no later than 30 calendar days from filing with the
Commission, or, if applicable, the end of the extended review period, if the Commission finds
that such action is necessary or appropriate in the public interest, and is consistent with the
protection of investors. The Commission may extend the amendment review period for:
(1) An additional 30 calendar days, if the Commission determines that a longer period is
appropriate; or
(2) Any extended review period to which a duly authorized representative of the Covered
ATS agrees in writing.
(B) A Form ATS-N amendment declared ineffective shall prohibit the Covered ATS
from operating pursuant to the ineffective Form ATS-N amendment. A Form ATS-N
amendment declared ineffective does not prevent the Covered ATS from subsequently filing a
new Form ATS-N amendment.
(C) During review by the Commission of a Material Amendment, the Covered ATS shall
amend the Material Amendment pursuant to the requirements of paragraphs (a)(2)(i)(B) through
(C) of this section. To make material changes to a filed Material Amendment during the
Commission review period, an ATS shall withdraw its filed Material Amendment and must file
the new Material Amendment pursuant to (a)(2)(i)(A) of this section.
* * * * *
(b) * * *
(2) * * *
(iii) * * *
(B) Updating, Correcting, Fee, and Contingent Amendments: * * *
* * * * *
11. Amend § 242.1000 by:
a. Adding, in alphabetical order, a definition for “Agency Securities”;
540
b. In the definition of “SCI alternative trading system or SCI ATS”:
i. Removing the word “or” at the end of paragraph (1)(ii);
ii. Redesignating paragraph (3) as paragraph (5);
iii. Adding a new paragraph (3) and paragraph (4); and
iv. In newly redesignated paragraph (5), removing “paragraphs (1) or (2)” and adding in
its place “paragraph (1), (2), (3), or (4)”; and
c. Adding, in alphabetical order, a definition for “U.S. Treasury Securities”.
The additions read as follows:
§ 242.1000 Definitions.
* * * * *
Agency Security has the meaning set forth in § 242.300(p).
* * * * *
SCI alternative trading system or SCI ATS * * *
(3) Had with respect to U.S. Treasury Securities, five percent (5%) or more of the
average weekly dollar volume traded in the United States as provided by the self-regulatory
organization to which such transactions are reported; or
(4) Had with respect to Agency Securities, five percent (5%) or more of the average
daily dollar volume traded in the United States as provided by the self-regulatory organization to
which such transactions are reported.
* * * * *
U.S. Treasury Security has the meaning set forth in § 242.300(o).
PART 249—FORMS, SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
12. The general authority citation for part 249 continues to read as follows:
Authority: 15 U.S.C. 78a et seq. and 7201 et seq.; 12 U.S.C. 5461 et seq.; 18 U.S.C.
1350; Sec. 953(b) Pub. L. 111-203, 124 Stat. 1904; Sec. 102(a)(3) Pub. L. 112-106, 126 Stat. 309
541
(2012), Sec. 107 Pub. L. 112-106, 126 Stat. 313 (2012), Sec. 72001 Pub. L. 114-94, 129 Stat.
1312 (2015), and secs. 2 and 3 Pub. L. 116-222, 134 Stat. 1063 (2020), unless otherwise noted.
* * * * *
 13. Amend Form ATS (referenced in § 249.637) by:
a. In the General Instructions, Item A.2, after “commencing operation” adding “and a
Newly Designated ATS (other than a Covered Newly Designated ATS, as defined in Rule 300(s)
of the Exchange Act (17 CFR 242.300(s))) must file an initial operation report on Form ATS no
later than [date 30 calendar days after the date of effective date of the final rule].”.
b. In the General Instructions, revising Items A.3 through A.6.
c. In the General Instructions, revising the fifth and seventh paragraphs of Item A.7.
d. In the General Instructions, adding new paragraph A.8.
e. In the Explanation of Terms, in the definition of “Subscriber”, removing the word
“order” and adding “trading interest” in its place.
f. In the Explanation of Terms, adding the definition of “Trading Interest” and “Newly
Designated ATS” in alphabetical order.
g. At the top of page 1 of the form, removing “INITIAL OPERATION REPORT”,
“AMENDMENT TO INITIAL OPERATION REPORT”, “CESSATION OF
OPERATIONS REPORT” and accompanying check boxes and adding text under a new
heading “Type of Filing (select one)”.
h. At the top and side of page 1 to the Form removing:
i. “Form ATS Page 1 Execution Page”;
ii. “Date filed (MM/DD/YY)”; and
iii. “[OFFICIAL USE ONLY]”.
i. Revising Items 2 through 5.
j. Removing Items 6 through 11.
542
k. Removing the text on page 1 of the form beginning “EXECUTION”, the signature
block below, the instruction that states “This page must always be completed in full with
original, manual signature and notarization. Affix notary stamp or seal where applicable.” and
“DO NOT WRITE BELOW THIS LINE – FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY”.
 l. On page 2 of the form, removing the following text:
Alternative trading system name: CRD Number:
Filing date: SEC File Number: 8-
m. At the top and side of page 2 to the Form removing:
i. “Form ATS Page 2 Execution Page”;
ii. “Date filed (MM/DD/YY)”; and
iii. “[OFFICIAL USE ONLY]”.
The revisions and additions read as follows:
Note: The text of Form ATS does not and this amendment will not appear in the Code of
Federal Regulations.
FORM ATS
* * * * *
A. GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS
* * * * *
3. CONTACT EMPLOYEE - The individual listed as the contact employee must be
authorized to receive all contact information, communications and mailings and be
responsible for disseminating that information within the alternative trading system’s
organization.
4. EDGAR FILING - Any report required to be submitted pursuant to Rule 301 of
Regulation ATS shall be prepared, formatted, and submitted in accordance with
Regulation S-T and the EDGAR Filer Manual.
5. EDGAR ACCEPTANCE - A filing that is defective may be rejected and not be
accepted by the EDGAR system. Any filing so rejected shall be deemed not to have been
filed. See generally Regulation S-T (17 CFR part 232).
543
6. RECORDKEEPING - A copy of this Form ATS must be retained by the ATS in
accordance with the EDGAR Filer Manual and Rule 303 of Regulation ATS and must be
made available for inspection upon a regulatory request.
7. PAPERWORK REDUCTION ACT DISCLOSURE
• * * *
• * * *
• * * *
• * * *
• It is estimated that an alternative trading system will spend approximately
20.5 hours completing the initial operation report on Form ATS,
approximately 5 hours preparing each amendment to Form ATS, and
approximately 2 hours preparing a cessation of operations report on Form
ATS.
• * * *
• All reports provided to the Commission on Form ATS (except for types of
securities traded provided on Form ATS and Form ATS-R) will be afforded
confidential treatment and will be available only to the examination of
Commission staff, state securities authorities, and the self-regulatory
organizations. Subject to the provisions of the Freedom of Information Act, 5
U.S.C. 522 (“FOIA”) and the Commission’s rules thereunder (17 CFR
200.80(b)(4)(iii)), the Commission does not generally publish or make
available information contained in any reports, summaries, analyses, letters, or
memoranda arising out of, in anticipation of, or in connection with, an
examination or inspection of the books and records of any person or any other
investigation.
8. For filings made pursuant to Rule 301(b)(2)(ii) through (iv) (i.e., Amendments to the
Initial Operation Report), attach to the filing an Exhibit C marked to indicate additions to
or deletions from Items 1 through 6, as applicable. Do not include in Exhibit C Items that
are not changing.
B. EXPLANATION OF TERMS
* * * * *
NEWLY DESIGNATED ATS – Shall mean an alternative trading system operating as of
[effective date of the final rule] that meets the criteria under 17 CFR 240.3b-16(a) as of
[effective date of the final rule] but did not meet the criteria under 17 CFR 240.3b-16(a) in
effect prior to [effective date of the final rule]. 17 CFR 242.300(r).
* * * * *
544
TRADING INTEREST – Shall mean order, as defined in 17 CFR 242.300(e), or any nonfirm indication of a willingness to buy or sell a security that identifies at least the security and
either quantity, direction (buy or sell), or price. 17 CFR 242.300(q).
* * * * *
WARNING: Failure to keep this form current and to file accurate supplementary information on
a timely basis, or the failure to keep accurate books and records or otherwise to comply with the
provisions of law applying to the conduct of alternative trading systems would violate the federal
securities laws and may result in disciplinary, administrative or criminal action.
INTENTIONAL MISSTATEMENTS OR OMISSIONS OF FACTS MAY CONSTITUTE
CRIMINAL VIOLATIONS
Type of Filing (select one):
� Initial operation report Rule 301(b)(2)(i)
� Material amendment Rule 301(b)(2)(ii)
� Periodic amendment Rule 301(b)(2)(iii)
� Correcting amendment Rule 301(b)(2)(iv)
� Cessation of operations report Rule 301(b)(2)(v)
• Date the ATS will cease to operate: mm/dd/yyyy
1. Provide the following identifying information:
A. Indicate the following:
i. Is the organization, association, Person, group of Persons, or system
filing the Form ATS a broker-dealer registered with the
Commission?
Yes No
ii. Is the registered broker-dealer authorized by a national securities
association to operate an ATS?
Yes No
B. Full name of registered broker-dealer of the ATS (“Broker-Dealer
Operator”) as stated on Form BD:_____________________________
C. Full name(s) of the ATS under which business is conducted, if
different:______________________________________________
D. Provide the SEC file number, CRD number, Legal Entity Identifier (if
545
any), and Market Participant Identifier (“MPID”) of the Broker-Dealer
Operator:
i. SEC File No.:__________________
ii. CRD No.:_____________________
iii. Legal Entity Identifier:___________
E. Provide the full name of the national securities association of the BrokerDealer Operator, the effective date of the Broker-Dealer Operator’s
membership with the national securities association, and MPID of the
ATS:
i. National Securities Association: ______________________
ii. Effective Date of Membership: _______________________
iii. MPID of the ATS: _________________________________
F. Provide, if any, the website URL of the ATS:________________
G. Provide the primary, and if any, secondary, physical street address(es) of
the ATS matching system: ______________________________
2.
a. Is the ATS a Newly Designated ATS?
Yes No
b. If this is an initial operation report for an ATS other than a Newly Designated
ATS, the date the alternative trading system expects to commence operation:
_________________________________
3. In a single document, provide the following:
a. A description of classes of subscribers (for example, broker -dealer, institution, or
retail). Also describe any differences in access to the services offered by the
alternative trading system to different groups or classes of subscribers.
b. A list of the types of securities the alternative trading system trades (for example,
debt, equity, listed), or if this is an initial operation report, the types of securities it
expects to trade. Note whether any types of securities are not registered under
Section 12(a) of the Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”).
c. A list of the securities the alternative trading system trades, or if this is an initial
operation report, the securities it expects to trade. Note whether any securities are
not registered under Section 12(a) of the Exchange Act.
d. The name, address, and telephone number of counsel for the alternative trading
system.
e. A list providing the full legal name of those direct owners reported on Schedule A
of Form BD.
546
f. The name of any entity, other than the alternative trading system, that will be
involved in operation of the alternative trading system, including the execution,
trading, clearing, and settling of transactions on behalf of the alternative trading
system. Provide a description of the role and responsibilities of each entity.
g. A description of the manner of operation of the alternative trading system.
h. A description of the procedures governing entry of trading interest into the
alternative trading system.
i. A description of the means of access to the alternative trading system.
j. A description of the procedures governing execution, reporting, clearance, and
settlement of transactions effected through the alternative trading system.
k. Procedures for ensuring subscriber compliance with system guidelines.
l. A brief description of the alternative trading system’s procedures for reviewing
system capacity, security, and contingency planning procedures.
m. If any other entity, other than the alternative trading system, will hold or
safeguard subscriber funds or securities on a regular basis, provide the name of
such entity and a brief description of the controls that will be implemented to
ensure the safety of such funds and securities.
4. Attach as Exhibit A, a copy of the alternative trading system’s subscriber manual and
any other materials provided to subscribers.
5. Attach as Exhibit B, a copy of the constitution, articles of incorporation or
association, with all amendments, and of the existing by-laws or corresponding rules
or instruments, whatever the name, of the alternative trading system.
 Select if, in lieu of filing, the ATS certifies that the information requested
under this Exhibit is available at the website above and is maintained on a
continuous basis and is accurate as of the date of this filing.
CONTACT INFORMATION, SIGNATURE BLOCK, AND CONSENT TO SERVICE
Provide the following information of the Person at {ATS} prepared to respond to questions for
this submission:
First Name: Last Name:
Title:
Email: Telephone:
Primary Street Address of the ATS:
547
Mailing Address of the ATS (if different):
The {ATS} consents that service of any civil action brought by, or notice of any proceeding
before, the SEC or a self-regulatory organization in connection with the alternative trading
system’s activities may be given by registered or certified mail to the contact employee at the
primary street address or mailing address (if different) of the ATS, or via email, at the addresses
provided on this Form ATS. The undersigned deposes and says that he/she has executed this
form on behalf of, and with the authority of, said alternative trading system. The undersigned and
{ATS} represent that the information and statements contained herein, including exhibits,
schedules, or other documents attached hereto, and other information filed herewith, all of which
are made a part hereof, are current, true, and complete.
Date {auto fill} {ATS}
By: _______________________ Title____________________________
* * * * *
14. Amend Form ATS-R (referenced in § 249.638) by:
a. In the General Instructions, revising Items A.3 through A.6.
b. In the General Instructions, revising the fifth and seventh paragraphs of Item A.7.
c. In the Explanation of Terms, removing the definitions of “Nasdaq National
Market Securities” and “Nasdaq SmallCap Market Securities”.
d. In the Explanation of Terms, adding the definitions of “Agency Securities,”
“Foreign Sovereign Debt Securities,” “U.S. Treasury Securities,” and “Trading Interest”.
e. In the Explanation of Terms, in the definition of “Subscriber,” removing the word
“order” and adding in its place the word “trading interest”.
f. On page 1 of the form, immediately before Section 1, adding text under a new
heading “Type of Filing”.
g. At the top and side of page 1 to the Form removing:
i. “Form ATS Page 1 Execution Page”;
ii. “Date filed (MM/DD/YY)”; and
iii. “[OFFICIAL USE ONLY]”.
548
h. Revising Item 1.
i. Removing the text on page 1 of the form beginning “EXECUTION”, the
signature block below, the instruction that states “This page must always be
completed in full with original, manual signature and notarization. Affix notary
stamp or seal where applicable.” and “DO NOT WRITE BELOW THIS LINE –
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY”.
j. On pages 2 and 3 of the form, removing the following text:
DO NOT WRITE BELOW THIS LINE – FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Alternative trading system name: CRD Number:
Filing date: SEC File Number: 8-
k. At the top and side of page 2 to the Form removing:
i. “Form ATS Page 2 Execution Page”;
ii. “Date filed (MM/DD/YY)”; and
iii. “[OFFICIAL USE ONLY]”.
l. At the top and side of page 3 to the Form removing:
i. “Form ATS Page 3 Execution Page”;
ii. “Date filed (MM/DD/YY)”; and
iii. “[OFFICIAL USE ONLY]”.
m. Revising Item 4.
n. Adding Item 5.C.
o. Revising Item 6.
p. Adding Item 8.
q. Adding a signature block at the end of the form.
The additions and revisions read as follows:
Note: The text of Form ATS-R does not and this amendment will not appear in the Code of
Federal Regulations.
549
FORM ATS-R
* * * * *
A. GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS
* * * * *
3. CONTACT EMPLOYEE - The individual listed as the contact employee must be
authorized to receive all contact information, communications and mailings and be
responsible for disseminating that information within the alternative trading system’s
organization.
4. EDGAR FILING - Any report required to be submitted pursuant to Rule 301 of
Regulation ATS shall be prepared, formatted, and submitted in accordance with
Regulation S-T and the EDGAR Filer Manual.
5. EDGAR ACCEPTANCE - A filing that is defective may be rejected and not be
accepted by the EDGAR system. Any filing so rejected shall be deemed not to have been
filed. See generally Regulation S-T (17 CFR part 232).
6. RECORDKEEPING - A copy of this Form ATS-R must be retained by the ATS in
accordance with the EDGAR Filer Manual and Rule 303 of Regulation ATS and must be
made available for inspection upon a regulatory request.
7. PAPERWORK REDUCTION ACT DISCLOSURE
• * * *
• * * *
• * * *
• * * *
• It is estimated that an alternative trading system will spend approximately 4.75
hours completing Form ATS-R.
• * * *
• All reports provided to the Commission on Form ATS-R (except for types of
securities traded provided on Form ATS and Form ATS-R) will be afforded
confidential treatment and will be available only to the examination of
Commission staff, state securities authorities and the self-regulatory
organizations. Subject to the provisions of the Freedom of Information Act, 5
U.S.C. 522 (“FOIA”) and the Commission’s rules thereunder (17 CFR
200.80(b)(4)(iii)), the Commission does not generally publish or make available
information contained in any reports, summaries, analyses, letters, or memoranda
550
arising out of, in anticipation of, or in connection with an examination or
inspection of the books and records of any person or any other investigation.
* * * * *
B. EXPLANATION OF TERMS
AGENCY SECURITIES – Shall mean a debt security issued or guaranteed by a U.S. executive
agency, as defined in 5 U.S.C. 105, or government-sponsored enterprise, as defined in 2 U.S.C.
622(8).
* * * * *
FOREIGN SOVEREIGN DEBT SECURITIES - Shall mean any security other than an equity
security, as defined in §240.3a11-1, issued or guaranteed by a foreign government, as defined in
§240.3b-4.
* * * * *
SUBSCRIBER - Shall mean any person that has entered into a contractual agreement with an
alternative trading system to access such alternative trading system for the purpose of effecting
transactions in securities or to submit, disseminate, or display trading interest on such alternative
trading system, including a customer, member, user, or participant in an alternative trading
system. A subscriber, however, shall not include a national securities exchange or national
securities association.
TRADING INTEREST - Shall mean an order, as defined in 17 CFR 242.300(e), or any nonfirm indication of a willingness to buy or sell a security that identifies at least the security and
either quantity, direction (buy or sell), or price. 17 CFR 242.300(q).
* * * * *
U.S. TREASURY SECURITIES – Shall mean a security issued by the U.S. Department of the
Treasury.
* * * * *
Alternative Trading System Name:______________________________
Period covered by this report:_________________ to ________________
Type of Filing (select one):
� Quarterly report Rule 301(b)(9)(i)
551
� Report for an ATS that has ceased to operate Rule 301(b)(9)(ii)
• Date the ATS ceased to operate: mm/dd/yyyy
1. Provide the following identifying information:
A. Full name of registered broker-dealer of the ATS (“Broker-Dealer
Operator”) as stated on Form BD:_____________________________
B. Full name(s) of the ATS under which business is conducted, if
different:_____________________________________________
C. Provide the SEC file number, CRD number, and Legal Entity Identifier
(if any) of the Broker-Dealer Operator:
i. SEC File No.:__________________
ii. CRD No.:_____________________
iii. Legal Entity Identifier:___________
D. Provide the full name of the national securities association of the BrokerDealer Operator, the effective date of the Broker-Dealer Operator’s
membership with the national securities association, and Market
Participant Identifier (“MPID”) of the ATS:
i. National Securities Association: ______________________
ii. Effective Date of Membership: _______________________
iii. MPID of the ATS: _________________________________
E. Provide, if any, the website URL of the ATS:________________
F. Provide the primary, and if any, secondary, physical street address(es) of
the ATS matching system: ______________________________
2. Attach as Exhibit A, a list of all subscribers that were participants of the alternative
trading system at any time during the period covered by this report.
3. Attach as Exhibit B, a list of all securities that were traded on the alternative trading
system at any time during the period covered by this report.
4. Provide the total unit and dollar volume of transactions (other than those for after-hours
trading) in the following securities. For securities reported in 4H-4N, report total
settlement value in U.S. Dollars. Enter “None,” “N/A” or “0” where appropriate.
Category of Securities Total Unit Volume of
Transactions
Total Dollar Volume of
Transactions
552
A. Listed Equity Securities
B. Equity securities issued pursuant
to Rule 144A of the Securities
Act of 1933
C. Penny Stock, other than any
securities included in Items 4A4D above
D. Other equity securities not
included in Items 4A-4C above
E. Rights and warrants
F. Listed options
G. Unlisted options
H. Government securities
i. U.S. Treasury Securities
ii. Agency Securities
I. Municipal securities
J. Corporate debt securities
i. U.S. corporate debt
securities
ii. Non-U.S. corporate debt
securities
K. Mortgage related securities
L. Foreign sovereign debt securities
M. Debt securities other than any
securities included in Items 4H4L above and 4N-4O below
553
 N. Repurchase agreements
Type of
collateral
Overnight triparty Term triparty Overnight bilateral Term bilateral
Total Unit
Volume of
Transactions
Total Dollar
Volume of
Transactions
Total Unit
Volume of
Transactions
Total Dollar
Volume of
Transactions
Total Unit
Volume of
Transactions
Total Dollar
Volume of
Transactions
Total Unit
Volume of
Transactions
Total Dollar
Volume of
Transactions
NMS
stocks
U.S.
Treasury
Securities
Federal
Agency
Securities
Agency
MortgageBacked
Securities
Municipal
Securities
U.S.
Corporate
Debt
Securities
Non-U.S.
Corporate
Debt
Securities
Assetbacked
securities
Foreign
sovereign
debt
securities
Other
securities
i. If other securities, please describe: _____________________________________________________

O. Reverse repurchase agreements
Type of
collateral
Overnight triparty Term triparty Overnight bilateral Term bilateral
Total Unit
Volume of
Transactions
Total Dollar
Volume of
Transactions
Total Unit
Volume of
Transactions
Total Dollar
Volume of
Transactions
Total Unit
Volume of
Transactions
Total Dollar
Volume of
Transactions
Total Unit
Volume of
Transactions
Total Dollar
Volume of
Transactions
NMS
stocks
U.S.
Treasury
Securities
554
5. * * *
C. List the types of listed options reported in Item 4F above: __________________
6. Provide the total unit and dollar volume of transactions for after-hours trading in the
following securities. Enter “None,” “N/A” or “0” where appropriate.
Category of Securities Total Unit Volume of
Transactions
Total Dollar Volume of
Transactions
A. Listed Equity Securities
B. Listed options
* * * * *
8. Was the ATS subject to the fair access obligations under Rule 301(b)(5) during any
portion of the period covered by the report?
� Yes � No
Federal
Agency
Securities
Agency
MortgageBacked
Securities
Municipal
Securities
U.S.
Corporate
Debt
Securities
Non-U.S.
Corporate
Debt
Securities
Assetbacked
securities
Foreign
sovereign
debt
securities
Other
securities
i. If other securities, please describe: _____________________________________________________
555
CONTACT INFORMATION, SIGNATURE BLOCK, AND CONSENT TO SERVICE
Provide the following information of the Person at {ATS} prepared to respond to questions for
this submission:
First Name: Last Name:
Title:
Email: Telephone:
Primary Street Address of the ATS:
Mailing Address of the ATS (if different):
The {ATS} consents that service of any civil action brought by, or notice of any
proceeding before, the SEC or a self-regulatory organization in connection with the
alternative trading system’s activities may be given by registered or certified mail to the
contact employee at the primary street address or mailing address (if different) of the
ATS, or via email, at the addresses provided on this Form ATS-R. The undersigned
deposes and says that he/she has executed this form on behalf of, and with the authority
of, said alternative trading system. The undersigned and {ATS} represent that the
information and statements contained herein, including exhibits, schedules, or other
documents attached hereto, and other information filed herewith, all of which are made a
part hereof, are current, true, and complete.
Date {auto fill} {ATS}
By: _______________________ Title____________________________
* * * * *
556
15. Revise Form ATS-N (referenced in § 249.640).
Note: Form ATS-N is attached as Appendix A to this document. Form ATS–N will not
appear in the Code of Federal Regulations.
Dated: January 26, 2022.
Vanessa A. Countryman,
Secretary.
Note: The following appendix will not appear in the Code of Federal Regulations.
557
APPENDIX A – MARKED FORM ATS-N
Deleted text is [bracketed]. New text is italicized.

United States Securities and Exchange Commission
Washington, DC
FORM ATS-N
Intentional Misstatements or Omissions of Facts May Constitute Criminal Violations
See 18 U.S.C.1001 and 15 U.S.C. 78ff(a)
File No:
{Covered[NMS Stock] ATS} is making this filing pursuant to the
Rule 304 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Type of Covered ATS
 NMS Stock ATS
 Government Securities ATS
 [Does the NMS Stock ATS currently operate pursuant to a Form ATS?] Is the ATS a Legacy
Government Securities ATS or Newly Designated ATS?
Yes No
Type of Filing (select one)
 Initial Form ATS-N Rule 304(a)(1)(i)
 Material Amendment Rule 304(a)(2)(i)(A)
 Updating Amendment Rule 304(a)(2)(i)(B)
 Correcting Amendment Rule 304(a)(2)(i)(C)
 [Order Display and
Fair Access]Contingent Amendment Rule 304(a)(2)(i)(D)
 Fee Amendment Rule 304(a)(2)(i)(E)
 Statement about the Form ATS-N Amendment pursuant to Instruction A.7([g]h) of this
form:
THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION HAS NOT PASSED UPON THE MERITS OR ACCURACY OF
THE DISCLOSURES IN THIS FILING.
558
 Provide the EDGAR accession number for the Form ATS-N filing to be amended:
 Notice of Cessation Rule 304(a)(3)
 Date the [NMS Stock]Covered ATS will cease to operate: mm/dd/yyyy
 Withdrawal of Form ATS-N filing
Provide the EDGAR accession number for the Form ATS-N filing to be withdrawn:
559
Part I: Identifying Information
1. Indicate the following:
a. Is the organization, association, Person, group of Persons, or system filing the Form
ATS-N a broker-dealer registered with the Commission?
Yes No
b. Is the registered broker-dealer authorized by a national securities association to
operate an ATS?
Yes No
2. Full name of registered broker-dealer, government securities broker, or government securities
dealer of the [NMS Stock] ATS (“Broker-Dealer Operator”) as stated on Form BD:
3. Full name(s) of [NMS Stock] ATS under which business is conducted, if different:
4. Provide the SEC file number, [and] CRD number, the Legal Entity Identifier (if any), and
Market Participant Identifier (“MPID”) of the Broker-Dealer Operator:
a. SEC File No.:
b. CRD No.:
c. Legal Entity Identifier:
d. MPID of the Broker-Dealer Operator:
5. Provide the full name of the national securities association of the Broker-Dealer Operator, the
effective date of the Broker-Dealer Operator’s membership with the national securities
association, and [Market Participant Identifier (“]MPID[”)] of the [NMS Stock] ATS:
a. National Securities Association:
b. Effective Date of Membership:
c. MPID of the [NMS Stock] ATS:
6. Provide, if any, the website URL of the [NMS Stock] ATS:
7. Provide the primary[,] and [if any,] secondary[,] physical street address(es) of the [NMS
Stock] ATS matching system:
a. Primary address:
b. Does the ATS have a secondary matching system?
Yes No
If yes, provide the secondary address:
560
8. Types of Securities Traded
a. For an NMS Stock ATS, does the ATS make available for trading all NMS stocks? If the
ATS suspends trading in securities under certain circumstances, please indicate so under
Part III, Item 20.
 Yes
 No
If no, identify the securities or types of securities that the ATS does not make available
for trading:
b. For a Government Securities ATS, please indicate the types of government securities the
ATS makes available for trading:
 U.S. Treasury Securities
 Bills:  On-the-run  Off-the-run  When-issued
 Notes:  On-the-run  Off-the-run  When-issued
 Bonds:  On-the-run  Off-the-run  When-issued
 TIPS:  On-the-run  Off-the-run  When-issued
 STRIPS:  On-the-run  Off-the-run  When-issued
 Floating rate notes:  On-the-run  Off-the-run  When-issued
 Agency Securities
 Agency Mortgage-Backed Securities
 Federal Agency Securities
 Repurchase or Reverse Repurchase Agreements on Government Securities
(“repos”)
 Triparty:  Repurchase Agreement
 Reverse Repurchase Agreement
 Centrally Cleared
 Non-Centrally Cleared
 Bilateral:  Repurchase Agreement
 Reverse Repurchase Agreement
 Centrally Cleared
 Non-Centrally Cleared

 Other:
If other, identify the types of government securities that the ATS makes available
for trading:
[8]9. Attach as Exhibit 1, the most recently filed or amended Schedule A of Form BD for the
Broker-Dealer Operator disclosing information related to direct owners and executive
officers.
 Select if, in lieu of filing, {[NMS Stock] ATS} certifies that the information requested
under this Exhibit is available at the website above and is accurate as of the date of this
filing, and that the ATS will maintain its website in accordance with the rules for
561
amending Form ATS-N pursuant to Rule 304(a)(2)(i) to reflect any changes to Schedule
A of Form BD for the Broker-Dealer Operator.
[9]10. Attach as Exhibit 2, the most recently filed or amended Schedule B of Form BD for the
Broker-Dealer Operator disclosing information related to indirect owners.
 Select if, in lieu of filing, {[NMS Stock] ATS} certifies that the information requested
under this Exhibit is available at the website above and is accurate as of the date of this
filing, and that the ATS will maintain its website in accordance with the rules for
amending Form ATS-N pursuant to Rule 304(a)(2)(i) to reflect any changes to Schedule
B of Form BD for the Broker-Dealer Operator.
[10]11. For filings made pursuant to Rule 304(a)(2)(i)(A) through ([D]E) (i.e., Form ATS-N
Amendments), attach as Exhibit 3 a document marked to indicate changes to “yes” or “no”
answers or additions to or deletions from any Item in Part I, Part II, and Part III, as
applicable, including Exhibits 1, 2, and 5. Indicate both the Part and Item number for all
Items that are changing. Do not include in Exhibit 3 Items that are not changing.
Part II: Activities of the Broker-Dealer Operator and its Affiliates
Item 1: Broker-Dealer Operator Trading Activities [on]in the ATS
a. Are business units of the Broker-Dealer Operator permitted to enter or direct the entry of
[orders and] trading interest [(e.g., quotes, conditional orders, or indications of interest)]
into the [NMS Stock] ATS?
Yes No
If yes, name and describe each type of business unit of the Broker-Dealer Operator that
enters or directs the entry of [orders and ]trading interest into the ATS (e.g., [NMS Stock
]ATS, type of trading desks, market maker, sales or client desk) [and, for]. For each
business unit, provide the applicable MPID and list the capacity of its [orders and]
trading interest (e.g., principal, agency, riskless principal). Explain any circumstance
when the Broker-Dealer Operator would be a counterparty to an ATS trade.
b. If yes to Item 1(a), are the services that the [NMS Stock] ATS offers and provides to the
business units required to be identified in Item 1(a) the same for all Subscribers and
Persons whose trading interest is entered into the ATS by a Subscriber or the BrokerDealer Operator?
Yes No
If no, explain any differences in response to the applicable Item number in Part III of this
form, as required, and list the applicable Item number here. If there are differences that
are not applicable to Part III, explain those differences here.
c. Are there any formal or informal arrangements with any of the business units required to
be identified in Item 1(a) to provide [orders or] trading interest to the [NMS Stock] ATS
(e.g., undertaking to buy or sell continuously, or to meet specified thresholds of trading or
quoting activity)?
Yes No
562
If yes, identify the business unit and respond to the request in Part III, Item 12 of this
form.
[d. Can orders and trading interest in the NMS Stock ATS be routed to a Trading Center
operated or controlled by the Broker-Dealer Operator?
Yes No

If yes, respond to request in Part III, Item 16 of this form.]
Item 2: Affiliates Trading Activities [on]in the ATS
a. Are Affiliates of the Broker-Dealer Operator permitted to enter or direct the entry of
[orders and] trading interest into the [NMS Stock] ATS?
Yes No
If yes, name and describe each type of Affiliate that enters or directs the entry of [orders
and] trading interest into the ATS (e.g., broker-dealer, [NMS Stock ]ATS, investment
company, hedge fund, market maker, principal trading firm)[ and, for]. For each
Affiliate, provide the applicable MPID and list the capacity of its [orders and] trading
interest (e.g., principal, agency, riskless principal). Explain any circumstances when an
Affiliate of the Broker-Dealer Operator would be a counterparty to an ATS trade.
b. If yes[,] to Item 2(a), are the services that the [NMS Stock ]ATS offers and provides to
the Affiliates required to be identified in Item 2(a) the same for all Subscribers and
Persons whose trading interest is entered into the ATS by a Subscriber or the BrokerDealer Operator?
Yes No
If no, explain any differences in response to the applicable Item number in Part III of this
form, as required, and list the applicable Item number here. If there are differences that
are not applicable to Part III, explain those differences.
c. Are there any formal or informal arrangements with an Affiliate required to be identified
in Item 2(a) to provide [orders or] trading interest to the [NMS Stock] ATS (e.g.,
undertaking to buy or sell continuously, or to meet specified thresholds of trading or
quoting activity)?
Yes No
If yes, identify the Affiliate and respond to the request in Part III, Item 12 of this form.
[d. Can orders and trading interest in the NMS Stock ATS be routed to a Trading Center
operated or controlled by an Affiliate of the Broker-Dealer Operator?
Yes No
If yes, respond to the request in Part III, Item 16 of this form.]

Item 3: [Order] Interaction of Trading Interest with Broker-Dealer Operator;
Affiliates
563
a. Can any Subscriber opt out from interacting with [orders and] trading interest of the
Broker-Dealer Operator in the [NMS Stock] ATS?
Yes No
If yes, explain the opt-out process.
b. Can any Subscriber opt out from interacting with the [orders and] trading interest of an
Affiliate of the Broker-Dealer Operator in the [NMS Stock] ATS?
Yes No
If yes, explain the opt-out process.
c. If yes to Item 3(a) or 3(b), are the [terms and conditions] requirements of the opt-out
processes required to be identified in Item 3(a), 3(b), or both, the same for all
Subscribers?
Yes No
If no, identify and explain any differences.
Item 4: Arrangements with Trading [Centers] Venues
a. Are there any formal or informal arrangements (e.g., mutual, reciprocal, or preferential
access arrangements) between the Broker-Dealer Operator and a [Trading Center] trading
venue to access the [NMS Stock ] ATS services (e.g., arrangements to effect transactions
or to submit, disseminate, or display [orders and] trading interest in the ATS)?
Yes No
If yes, identify the [Trading Center] trading venue and the ATS services and provide a
summary of the terms and conditions of the arrangement.
b. [If yes to Item 4(a),] A[a]re there any formal or informal arrangements between an
Affiliate of the Broker-Dealer Operator and a [Trading Center] trading venue to access
the [NMS Stock] ATS services?
Yes No
If yes, identify the [Trading Center] trading venue and ATS services and provide a
summary of the terms and conditions of the arrangement.

Item 5: Other Products and Services
a. Does the Broker-Dealer Operator offer [Subscribers] any products or services for the
purpose of effecting transactions or submitting, disseminating, or displaying [orders]
[and] trading interest in the [NMS Stock] ATS (e.g., algorithmic trading products that
send orders to the ATS, order management or order execution systems, data feeds
regarding orders and trading interest in, or executions occurring on, the ATS, order
hedging or aggregation functionality, post-trade processing)?
Yes No
If yes, identify the products or services offered, provide a summary of the [terms and
conditions] requirements for use, and list here the applicable Item number in Part III of
564
this form where the use of the product or service is explained. If there is no applicable
Item in Part III, explain the use of the product or service with the ATS here.
b. If yes to Item 5(a), are the [terms and conditions] requirements for use of the services or
products required to be identified in Item 5(a) the same for all Subscribers, Persons
whose trading interest is entered into the ATS by a Subscriber or the Broker-Dealer
Operator, and the Broker-Dealer Operator?
Yes No
If no, identify and explain any differences.
c. Does any Affiliate of the Broker-Dealer Operator offer [Subscribers, the Broker-Dealer
Operator, or both,] any products or services for the purpose of effecting transactions or
submitting, disseminating, or displaying [orders or] trading interest in the [NMS Stock]
ATS?
Yes No
If yes, identify the products or services offered, provide a summary of the [terms and
conditions] requirements for use, and list here the applicable Item number in Part III of
this form where the use of the product or service is explained. If there is no applicable
item in Part III, explain the use of the product or service with the ATS here.

d. If yes to Item 5(c), are the [terms and conditions] requirements for use of the services or
products required to be identified in Item 5(c) the same for all Subscribers, Persons
whose trading interest is entered into the ATS by a Subscriber or the Broker-Dealer
Operator, and the Broker-Dealer Operator?
Yes No
If no, identify and explain any differences.
Item 6: Activities of Service Providers
[a. Does any employee of the Broker-Dealer Operator or its Affiliate that services both the
operations of the NMS Stock ATS and any other business unit or any Affiliate of the
Broker-Dealer Operator (“shared employee”) have access to confidential trading
information on the NMS Stock ATS?
Yes No
If yes, identify the business unit, Affiliate, or both that the shared employee services, and
provide a summary of the role and responsibilities of the shared employee at the ATS and
the business unit, Affiliate, or both that the shared employee services.]
[b]a. Does any entity, other than the Broker-Dealer Operator, support the services or
functionalities of the [NMS Stock] ATS (“service provider”) that are required to be
explained in Part III of this form?
Yes No
If yes, both identify the service provider and provide a summary of the role and
responsibilities of the service provider in response to the applicable Item number in Part
III of this form, as required. List the applicable Item number here. If there are services
or functionalities that are not applicable to Part III, identify the service provider, the
565
services and functionalities, and also provide a summary of the role and responsibilities
of the service provider here.
[c]b. If yes to Item 6([b]a), does the service provider, or any of its Affiliates, use the
[NMS Stock] ATS services?
Yes No
If yes, identify the service provider, or the Affiliate as applicable, and the ATS services
that the service provider or its Affiliates use.
[d]c. If yes to Item 6([c]b), are the services that the [NMS Stock] ATS offers and
provides to the entity required to be identified in Item 6([c]b) the same for all Subscribers
and Persons whose trading interest is entered into the ATS by a Subscriber or the BrokerDealer Operator?
 Yes No
If no, identify and explain any differences.
Item 7: Protection of Confidential Trading Information
a. Describe the written safeguards and written procedures to protect the confidential trading
information of Subscribers to the [NMS Stock] ATS, including:
i. a summary of the roles and responsibilities of any Persons that have access to
confidential trading information, the confidential trading information that is
accessible by them, and the basis for the access. If any employee of the Broker- Dealer Operator or employee of its Affiliate that services both the operations of
the ATS and any other business unit or any Affiliate of the Broker-Dealer
Operator (“shared employee”) has access to confidential trading information in
the ATS, identify the business unit, Affiliate or both that the shared employee
services, and provide a summary of the role and responsibilities of the shared
employee at the ATS and the business unit, Affiliate, or both, that the shared
employee services;
ii. written standards controlling employees of the ATS that trade for employees’
accounts; and
iii. written oversight procedures to ensure that the safeguards and procedures
described above are implemented and followed.
b. Can a Subscriber consent to the disclosure of its confidential trading information to any
Person (not including those employees of the [NMS Stock] ATS who are operating the
system or responsible for its compliance with applicable rules)?
Yes No
If yes, explain how and under what conditions.
c. If yes to Item 7(b), can a Subscriber withdraw consent to the disclosure of its confidential
trading information to any Person (not including those employees of the [NMS Stock]
ATS who are operating the system or responsible for its compliance with applicable
rules)?
Yes No
566
If yes, explain how and under what conditions.
[d. Provide a summary of the roles and responsibilities of any Persons that have access to
confidential trading information, the confidential trading information that is accessible by
them, and the basis for the access.]
Part III: Manner of Operations
For each narrative response in Part III, identify and explain any differences among and
between any Subscribers, Persons whose trading interest is entered into the ATS by a
Subscriber or the Broker-Dealer Operator, the Broker-Dealer Operator, and any affiliates
of the Broker-Dealer Operator.
Item 1: Types of ATS Subscribers
Select the type(s) of Subscribers that can use the [NMS Stock] ATS services:
 Investment Companies  Retail Investors  Issuers  Brokers
[ NMS Stock ATSs]  Asset Managers  Principal Trading Firms
 Hedge Funds  Market Makers  Banks  Dealers
 Insurance Companies  Pension Funds  Corporations
 Other
If other, identify the type(s) of [s]Subscriber.
Item 2: Eligibility for ATS Services
a. Does the [NMS Stock] ATS require Subscribers to be registered broker-dealers?
Yes No
b. Are there any [other] conditions that the [NMS Stock] ATS requires a Person to satisfy
before accessing the ATS services?
Yes No
If yes, list and provide a summary of the conditions.
[c. If yes to Item 2(b), are the conditions required to be identified in Item 2(b) the same for
all Persons?
 Yes No
If no, identify and describe any differences.]
[d]c. Does the [NMS Stock] ATS require Subscribers to enter a written agreement to
use the ATS services?
Yes No
567
Item 3: Exclusion from ATS Services
[a.]Can the [NMS Stock] ATS exclude, in whole or in part, any Subscriber from the ATS
services?
Yes No
If yes, list and provide a summary of the conditions for excluding, in whole or in part, a
Subscriber from the ATS services.
[b. If yes to Item 3(a), are the conditions required to be identified in Item 3(a) the same for
all Subscribers?
Yes No
If no, identify and explain any differences.]
Item 4: Hours of Operations and Trading Outside of Regular Trading Hours
a. Provide the days and hours of operations of the [NMS Stock] ATS, including the times
when [orders or] trading interest can be entered [on] in the ATS[, and any hours of
operation outside of regular trading hours].
b. Are the ATS services available outside of its regular trading hours (e.g., after-hours
trading)?
Yes No
c. If yes to Item 4(b), with respect to services available outside of the ATS’s regular trading
hours, are there any differences between the services during the ATS’s regular trading
hours and outside of the ATS’s regular trading hours?
Yes No
If yes, identify and explain the differences.
[b. Are the hours of operations the same for all Subscribers and the Broker-Dealer Operator?
Yes No
If no, identify and explain any differences.]
Item 5: Means of Entry
a. Does the [NMS Stock] ATS permit [orders and] trading interest to be entered directly
into the ATS (e.g., via Financial Information eXchange (“FIX”) protocol, Binary)?
Yes No
If yes, explain the protocol that can be used to directly enter [orders and] trading interest
into the ATS.
[b. If yes to Item 5(a), are the protocols required to be identified in Item 5(a) the same for all
Subscribers and the Broker-Dealer Operator?
Yes No
568
If no, identify and explain any differences.]
[c]b. Are there any [other] means of [for] entering [orders and] trading interest into the
[NMS Stock] ATS not otherwise disclosed in Part III, Item 5(a) (e.g., smart order router,
algorithm, order management system, sales desk, direct market access, web-enabled
system, or aggregation functionality)?
Yes No
If yes, identify and explain the [other] means for entering [orders and] trading interest,
including [indicate] whether the means are provided through the Broker-Dealer Operator,
either by itself or through a third-party contracting with the Broker-Dealer Operator, or
through an Affiliate of the Broker-Dealer Operator, and list and provide a summary of the
[terms and conditions]requirements for entering [orders or] trading interest into the ATS
through these means.
[d. If yes to Item 5(c), are the terms and conditions required to be identified in Item 5(c) the
same for all Subscribers and the Broker-Dealer Operator?
Yes No
If no, identify and explain any differences.]
Item 6: Connectivity and Co-location
a. Does the [NMS Stock] ATS offer co-location and related services (e.g., cabinets and
equipment, cross-connects)?
Yes No
If yes, provide a summary of the [terms and conditions] requirements for use for colocation and related services, including the speed and connection (e.g., fiber, copper)
options offered.
[b. If yes to Item (6)(a), are the terms and conditions required to be identified in Item 6(a) the
same for all Subscribers and the Broker-Dealer Operator?
Yes No
If no, identify and explain any differences.]
[c]b. Does the [NMS Stock] ATS offer any other means besides co-location and related
services required to be explained in this Item 6(a) to increase the speed of communication
with the ATS?
Yes No
If yes, explain the means to increase the speed of communication with the ATS and
provide a summary of the [terms and conditions] requirements for its use.
[d. If yes to Item 6(c), are the terms and conditions required to be identified in Item 6(c) the
same for all Subscribers and the Broker-Dealer Operator?
Yes No
569
If no, identify and explain any differences.]
[e]c. Does the[ NMS Stock] ATS offer any means to reduce the speed of
communication with the ATS (e.g., speed bumps)?
Yes No
If yes, explain the methods to reduce the speed of communication with the ATS and
provide a summary of the [terms and conditions] requirements for its use.
[f. If yes to Item 6(e), are the terms and conditions required to be identified in Item 6(e) the
same for all Subscribers and the Broker-Dealer Operator?
Yes No
If no, identify and explain any differences.
Yes No]
Item 7: Order Types [and Attributes] and Sizes; Trading Facilities
Does the ATS provide trading facilities or set rules for bringing together orders of buyers
and sellers (e.g., crossing system, auction market, limit order matching book, click-totrade functionality)?
Yes No
If yes, explain the trading facilities and rules for bringing together the orders of buyers
and sellers in the ATS, including:
a. [Identify and explain] a description of each order type offered by the [NMS
Stock] ATS[. In your explanation, include the following], including:
• [i. priority, including] the order type’s priority upon order entry and any
subsequent change to priority (if applicable); whether and when the order type
can receive a new time stamp; the order type’s priority [vis-à-vis]in relation to
other orders on the book due to changes in the NBBO or other reference price;
and any instance in which the order type could lose execution priority to a
later arriving order at the same price;
• [ii. ]conditions, including any price conditions (e.g., how price conditions
affect the rank and price at which [it]the order type can be executed;
conditions on the display or non-display of an order; or conditions on
executability and routability);
• [iii. ]order types designed not to remove liquidity (e.g., post-only orders,
store orders), including what occurs when such order is marketable against
trading interest on the [NMS Stock] ATS when received;
• [iv. ]order types that adjust their price as changes to the order book occur
(e.g., price sliding orders or pegged orders) or have a discretionary range,
including an order’s rank and price upon order entry and whether such prices
or rank may change based on the NBBO or other market conditions when
using such order type; when the order type is executable and at what price the
execution would occur; whether the price at which the order type can be
570
executed ever changes; and if the order type can operate in different ways, the
default operation of the order type;
• [v. ] whether an order type is eligible for routing to other [Trading Centers]
trading venues;
• [vi. ]the time-in-force instructions that can be used or not used with each
order type;
• [vii. ]the circumstances under which order types may be combined with
another order type, modified, replaced, canceled, rejected, or removed from
the [NMS Stock] ATS; and
• [viii.]the availability of order types across all forms of connectivity to the
[NMS Stock] ATS and differences, if any, in the availability of an order type
across those forms of connectivity.
b. any order size requirements (e.g., minimum or maximum size, odd-lot, mixed-lot,
trading increments) and related handling procedures (e.g., handling of residual
trading interest);
c. rules governing order interaction, priority, pricing methodologies, allocation,
matching, and execution of orders;
d. how orders may interact with non-firm trading interest or separate trading
functionalities within the ATS or offered by the Broker-Dealer Operator;
e. procedures governing trading in the ATS, such as functionality or protocols that
permit the selection of displayed orders to trade against, price improvement
functionality, price protection mechanisms, short sales, functionality to adjust or
hedge orders, locked-crossed markets, trading controls (e.g., fat finger checks,
whether the ATS can employ a global kill switch), the handling of execution errors
and trade breaks, and the time-stamping of messages and executions, and any
conditions or processes for terminating a counterparty match.
[b. Are the terms and conditions for each order type and attribute the same for all
Subscribers and the Broker-Dealer Operator?
Yes No
If no, identify and explain any differences.]
[Item 8: Order Sizes
a. Does the NMS Stock ATS require (e.g., minimum or maximum sizes for orders or
trading interest)?
Yes No
If yes, specify any minimum or maximum order or trading interest size requirements and
any related handling procedures.
b. If yes to Item 8(a), are the requirements and procedures required to be identified in Item
8(a) the same for all Subscribers and the Broker-Dealer Operator?
571
Yes No
If no, identify and explain any differences.
c. Does the NMS Stock ATS accept or execute odd-lot orders?
Yes No
If yes, specify any odd-lot order requirements and related handling procedures (e.g., odd
lot treated the same as round lot).
d. If yes to Item 8(c), are the requirements and procedures required to be identified in Item
8(c) the same for all Subscribers and the Broker-Dealer Operator?
Yes No
If no, identify and explain any differences.
e. Does the NMS Stock ATS accept or execute mixed-lot orders?
Yes No
If yes, specify any mixed lot order requirements and related handling procedures (e.g.,
mixed lot treated the same as round lot).
f. If yes, to Item 8(e), are the requirements and procedures required to be identified in 8(e)
the same for all Subscribers and the Broker-Dealer Operator?
Yes No
If no, identify and explain any differences.]
Item [9]8: Use of Non-Firm Trading Interest; Communication Protocols and
Negotiation Functionality [Conditional Orders and Indications of Interest]
[a.]Does the [NMS Stock ]ATS make available communication protocols for buyers and
sellers to communicate non-firm trading interest or negotiate a trade [send or receive any
messages indicating trading interest] (e.g., request-for-quote (RFQ) protocols, bidswanted or offers-wanted protocols, indications of interest mechanisms, conditional order
functionalities[, IOIs, actionable IOIs, or conditional orders])?
Yes No
If yes, identify and explain [the use of the messages, including information contained in
messages (e.g., price or size minimums), how the message is transmitted (e.g., order
management system, smart order router, FIX), when the message is transmitted (e.g.,
automatically by the ATS, or upon the sender’s request), the type of Persons that receive
the message (e.g., Subscribers, Trading Centers), responses to conditional orders or IOIs
(e.g., submission to firm-up conditional orders), and the conditions under which the
message might result in an execution in the ATS (e.g., response time parameters,
interaction, and matching)] the protocols and functionalities, including:
a. the use of messages, including:
572
• types of messages that the ATS permits to be sent and received and the type of
Persons that can send or receive messages (e.g., the ATS, types of
Subscribers, specific Subscribers, customers of Subscribers, trading venues);
• information contained in messages (e.g., symbol, price, direction, or size
minimums) and whether the terms in the messages can vary based on potential
recipients (e.g., different Subscribers may receive different prices for the same
security);
• how and when messages are transmitted (e.g., order management system,
router, or FIX);
• whether messages are attributed to their sender or anonymous, and whether a
participant may elect to disclose its identity to other Subscribers, and if so,
how, when, and what is disclosed;
• processes to respond to messages (e.g., submission to firm-up conditional
orders, response parameters for an RFQ, response to a request to negotiate,
last look procedures);
• time parameters applicable to messages (e.g., the time-in-force instructions
that can be used with a message, or wire time or response time applied to a
conditional order or RFQ);
• information regarding the contra-party trading interest made known on the
system (if trading interest is made known on the system, describe it in Part III,
Item 15), including whether a Subscriber may elect whether to display only
part of its trading interest (e.g., hidden size);
• the circumstances under which messages may be modified, replaced,
canceled, rejected, or removed from the ATS;
• any restrictions or conditions under which the message might result in the
match of two counterparties, require a response, or result in an execution in
the ATS (e.g., interaction, matching, selection, automatic execution) and any
price conditions (e.g., how price conditions affect the rank and price at which
the message can result in an execution);
• limits or requirements for multiple messages sent at the same time (e.g.,
whether the ATS prohibits a Subscriber from entering multiple buy or sell
orders in the same security);
• whether a message containing trading interest is eligible to be sent to
destinations outside the ATS (if a message can be sent to a destination outside
the ATS, describe it in Part III, Item 16);
• the availability of message types across all forms of connectivity to the ATS
and differences, if any, in the availability of an order type across those forms
of connectivity.
b. any requirements relating to the size of trading interest (e.g., minimum or maximum
size, message controls or throttling, odd-lot, mixed-lot, trading increments) and
related handling procedures (e.g., handling of residual trading interest).
c. procedures governing communication protocols, including:
• priority, including the priority applied to a message upon entry and any
subsequent change to priority (if applicable, whether and when the message
can receive a new time stamp, the message’s priority in relation to other
messages in the ATS due to a change to any reference price, and any instance
in which a message could lose execution priority to a later arriving message at
the same price); whether the ATS permits or provides for Subscribers to vary
pricing based on the identity of other Subscribers (e.g., preferred pricing feeds
573
or tiered pricing) and whether Subscribers can select counter-parties to
interact with based on their identity;
• rules for interaction, pricing methodologies, allocation, matching, and
execution;
• functionality or protocols for the auto-execution of non-firm trading interest,
and how the ATS or a Subscriber can designate trading interest as
automatically executable;
• how non-firm trading interest may interact with orders or separate trading
functionalities in the ATS or functionality offered by the Broker-Dealer
Operator;
• procedures governing trading in the ATS, such as functionality or protocols
that permit a Subscriber to select displayed non-firm trading interest to trade
against, price improvement functionality, price protection mechanisms, short
sales, functionality to adjust or hedge trading interest, locked-crossed markets,
the handling of execution errors, platform and trade controls (e.g., fat finger
checks, whether the ATS can employ a global kill switch), the time-stamping
of trading interest messages and executions, any conditions or processes for
terminating a counterparty match;
• what information is made available to Subscribers from the ATS about
interaction history, counterparty matching, or executions (e.g., pre- and post- trade data, best execution analysis, transaction cost analysis), when such
information is made available, the source(s) of such information, and the
process for Subscribers to access this information.
[b. If yes to Item 9(a), are the terms and conditions governing conditional orders and
indications of interest the same for all Subscribers and the Broker-Dealer Operator?
Yes No
If no, identify and explain any differences.]
Item 9: Monitoring and Surveillance
a. Does the ATS supervise the trading activity that occurs on or through the ATS (e.g.,
supervisory systems and procedures to detect, deter, or limit potentially disruptive,
manipulative, or non-bona fide quoting and trading activities that occur on or through its
system and to ensure that they are reasonably designed to achieve compliance with
applicable SRO rules and the federal securities laws)?
Yes No
If yes, provide a summary of the supervision activities, the sources of data the ATS uses
to supervise trading activity (e.g., internal or external sources), and the activities that the
ATS intends to detect, deter, or limit.
b. Does the ATS monitor for certain trading behaviors or activities that may be detrimental
to the ATS marketplace or trading (e.g., anti-gaming technology)?
Yes No
If yes, provide a summary the monitoring activities and the trading behaviors and
activities that the ATS intends to detect, deter, or limit.
574
Item 10: Opening and Reopening
a. Explain the processes and procedures related to how the [NMS Stock] ATS opens or reopens for trading, including when and how [orders and] trading interest [are] is priced,
prioritized, matched, and executed; when and how trading interest may be sent, received,
and viewed at opening; how unexecuted trading interest is handled at the time the ATS
begins its regular trading hours or following a stoppage of trading in a security during its
regular trading hours; whether there are any protocols at the open for buyers and sellers
to send messages and negotiate a trade; [,] and identify any order types allowed prior to
the start of its regular trading hours or following a stoppage of trading in a security during
its regular trading hours.
[b. Are the processes and procedures governing opening and re-opening the same for all
Subscribers and the Broker-Dealer Operator?
Yes No
If no, identify and explain any differences.
c. Explain how unexecuted orders and trading interest are handled at the time the NMS
Stock ATS begins regular trading at the start of regular trading hours or following a
stoppage of trading in a security during regular trading hours.
d. Are the processes or procedures governing unexecuted orders and trading at the time the
NMS Stock ATS begins regular trading at the start of regular trading hours, or following
a stoppage of trading in a security during regular trading hours, the same for all
Subscribers and the Broker-Dealer Operator?
Yes No
If no, identify and explain any differences.]
[e]b. Are there any differences between pre-opening executions, executions following a
stoppage of trading in a security during the ATS’s regular trading hours, and/or
executions during its regular trading hours?
Yes No
If yes, identify and explain the differences.
Item 11: [Trading Services, Facilities and Rules] Interaction with Related Markets
[a. Provide a summary of the structure of the NMS Stock ATS marketplace (e.g., crossing
system, auction market, limit order matching book) and explain the means and facilities
for bringing together the orders of multiple buyers and sellers on the NMS Stock ATS.

b. Are the means and facilities required to be identified in Item 11(a) the same for all
Subscribers and the Broker-Dealer Operator?
Yes No
If no, identify and explain any differences.

c. Explain the established, non-discretionary rules and procedures of the NMS Stock ATS,
including order interaction rules for the priority, pricing methodologies, allocation,
575
matching, and execution of orders and trading interest, and other procedures governing
trading, such as price improvement functionality, price protection mechanisms, short
sales, locked-crossed markets, the handling of execution errors, and the time-stamping of
orders and executions.
d. Are the established, non-discretionary rules and procedures required to be identified in
Item 11(c) the same for all Subscribers and the Broker-Dealer Operator?
Yes No
If no, identify and explain any differences.]
Does the Broker-Dealer Operator or any of its Affiliates offer functionality, procedures,
or protocols to facilitate trading or communication on, or source pricing for, the ATS
using markets for financial instruments related to the securities that the ATS trades (e.g.,
futures, options, currencies, swap, fixed income markets), including offering order types
to facilitate transactions on both markets, or procedures to allow Subscribers to perform
multi-leg transactions involving the identified market(s)?
Yes No
If yes, (i) identify the functionality, procedures, protocols, and source of pricing and the
related market; (ii) state whether the functionality, procedures, protocols, and source of
pricing is provided or operated by the Broker-Dealer Operator or an affiliate of the
Broker-Dealer Operator and whether the related market is provided or operated by the
Broker-Dealer Operator or its affiliate; and (iii) explain the use of the functionality,
procedures, protocols, and source of pricing with regard to the related market and the
ATS, including how and when the functionality, procedures, protocols, and source of
pricing can be used, by whom, and with what markets.

Item 12: Liquidity Providers
Are there any formal or informal arrangements with any [Subscriber]Person or the
Broker-Dealer Operator to display, enter, or trade against [provide orders or] trading
interest in [to] the [NMS Stock] ATS (e.g., undertaking to buy or sell continuously, or to
meet specified thresholds of trading or quoting activity)?
Yes No
If yes, identify the liquidity provider and describe the arrangement, including the terms
and conditions.
Item 13: Segmentation; Notice
a. Is[Are] [orders and] trading interest in the [NMS Stock] ATS segmented into categories,
classifications, tiers, or levels (e.g., segmented by type of participant, [order] trading
interest size, duration, source, or nature of trading activity)?
Yes No
If yes, explain the segmentation procedures, including (i) [a description for] how and
what [orders and] trading interest is [are] segmented, including where the identification
of segmented trading interest is applied (e.g., when ATS trading interest is received by
the Broker-Dealer Operator or entered into the ATS); (ii) identify and describe any
categories, classification, tiers, or levels and the types of [orders and] trading interest that
are included in each; (iii) provide a summary of the parameters for each segmented
576
category and length of time each segmented category is in effect, including when such
category is determined, reviewed, and can be changed; (iv) any procedures for overriding
a determination of segmented category; and (v) how segmentation can affect
[order]trading interest interaction.
b. Can the ATS, in the absence of Subscriber direction, prevent a Subscriber or its potential
counter-parties from viewing or interacting with certain trading interest (e.g.,
permissioning, filtering, or blocking)?
Yes No
If yes, explain such processes, including (i) what a Subscriber or counterparty is
prevented from viewing or interacting with and where this determination is made (i.e.,
when trading interest is received at the Broker-Dealer Operator or the ATS); (ii) how and
when the ATS prevents a Subscriber or its potential counter-party from viewing or
interacting with certain trading interest; (iii) identify and describe any categories,
classification, tiers, or levels and the types of trading interest that the ATS uses to
determine how Subscribers can view or interact with other trading interest; (iv) a
summary of the parameters for such processes and length of time any such parameter is
in effect; (v) any procedures for overriding a determination of any category,
classification, tier, or level that the ATS uses to designate how Subscriber trading interest
can interact; (vi) how such processes can affect trading interest interaction; (vii) how a
Subscriber can view filtered messages and any permissioning process and criteria for a
Subscriber to send, receive, or interact with a message.
[If yes to Item 13(a), is the segmentation of orders and trading interest the same for all
Subscribers and the Broker-Dealer Operator?
Yes No
If no, identify and explain any differences.]
c. Does the [NMS Stock] ATS identify [orders or ]trading interest entered by a customer of
a broker-dealer on the [NMS Stock] ATS as [a] customer [order] trading interest?
Yes No
d. If yes to Item 13(a) or 13(b), does the [NMS Stock ]ATS disclose to any Person the
designated segmented or otherwise designated category, classification, tier, or level of
[orders and ]trading interest?
Yes No
If yes, provide a summary of the content of the disclosure, when and how the disclosure
is communicated, who receives it, and whether and how such designation can be
contested.
[e. If yes to Item 13(d), are the disclosures required to be identified in 13(d) the same for all
Subscribers and the Broker-Dealer Operator?
Yes No
If no, identify and explain any differences.]
Item 14: Counter-Party Selection
577
a. Can [orders or] trading interest be designated to interact or not interact with certain
[orders or] trading interest in the [NMS Stock] ATS (e.g., designated to interact with or
execute against a specific Subscriber’s [orders or] trading interest or prevent the trading
interest of a Subscriber[’s order] from interacting with or executing against the trading
interest of that Subscriber [itself])?
Yes No
If yes, explain the counter-party selection procedures, including how counter-parties can
be selected, and whether the designations affect the trading rules (e.g., order interaction
or priority) or communication protocols of [interaction and priority of trading interest in]
the ATS.
b. Can a Subscriber designate trading interest that the Subscriber or potential counter-parties
can view (e.g., filtering, blocking, permissioning)?
Yes No
If yes, explain such processes, including (i) how and when a Subscriber can designate
which trading interest it or a potential counter-party can view; (ii) any categories,
classifications, or levels and the types of trading interest that Subscribers are able to
designate; (iii) a summary of the parameters for such processes and length of time any
such parameter is in effect; and (iv) how such processes can affect how trading interest
interacts in the ATS.
[b. If yes to Item 14(a), are the procedures for counter-party selection required to be
identified in Item 14(a) the same for all Subscribers and the Broker-Dealer Operator?
Yes No
If no, identify and explain any differences.]

Item 15: Display and Visibility of Trading Interest
a. Does the ATS display trading interest to Subscribers or the public (e.g., ATS
disseminates orders through market data feeds or a website or sends invitations or
requests to Subscribers about potential counterparties)?
Yes No
If yes, explain what information the ATS displays (e.g., security, price, size, direction,
the identity of the sender, rating information based on the sender’s past performance in
the ATS), how and when such information is displayed, to whom such information is
displayed (e.g., Subscribers, public, types of market participant), and how long the
displayed information is available. Indicate whether a Subscriber can opt-out of the
display of its trading interest, and if so the process for that Subscribers to do so.

b. Can a Subscriber use the ATS to display or make known trading interest to any Person
(e.g., stream quotes to the Subscribers or the public or send a request for quote, indication
of interest, conditional order, or invitation to negotiate to a Subscriber or the BrokerDealer Operator)?
Yes No
578
If yes, explain what information the Subscriber can display through the ATS (e.g.,
security, price, size, direction, the identity of the sender), procedures for Subscribers to
display such information, how and when such information is displayed, to whom such
information is displayed (e.g., Subscribers, public, types of market participant), and how
long the displayed information is available.
c. Is any trading interest bound for the ATS made known to any Person (not including
employees of the ATS who are operating the system) (e.g., trading interest directed to the
ATS by customers of the Broker-Dealer Operator that passes through a SOR or
functionality of the Broker-Dealer Operator before entering the ATS), or is any ATS
trading interest made known to any Person that is not otherwise disclosed in Part III,
15(a) or (b) (e.g., displays orders to the Broker-Dealer Operator’s SOR or trading desk),
or both?
Yes No
If yes, explain what information is displayed (e.g., security, price, size, direction, the
identity of the sender), how and when such information is displayed, to whom such
information is displayed (e.g., algorithm, SOR, trading desk, third party), and how long
the displayed information is available.
d[a]. Does the ATS operate as an Electronic Communication Network as defined in
Rule 600(a)([23]31) of Regulation NMS?
Yes No
[b. Are Subscriber orders and trading interest bound for or resting in the NMS Stock ATS
displayed or made known to any Person (not including those employees of the NMS
Stock ATS who are operating the system)?
Yes No
If yes, explain the display procedures, including how and when Subscriber orders and
trading interest are displayed, how long orders and trading interest are displayed, what
information about orders and trading interest is displayed, and the functionality of the
Broker-Dealer Operator and types of market participants that receive the displayed
information.
c. If yes to Item 15(b), are the display procedures required to be identified in 15(b) the same
for all Subscribers and the Broker-Dealer Operator?
Yes No
If no, identify and explain any differences.]
Item 16: Routing
a. Can [orders and] trading interest in the [NMS Stock ] ATS be routed or sent to a
destination outside the [NMS Stock] ATS?
Yes No
b. If yes to Item 16(a), must affirmative instructions from a Subscriber be obtained before
its [orders or] trading interest can be routed or sent from the [NMS Stock] ATS?
579
Yes No
If yes, describe the affirmative instruction and explain how the affirmative instruction is
obtained. If no, explain when [orders] trading interest in the [NMS Stock] ATS can be
routed or sent from the ATS (e.g., at the discretion of the Broker-Dealer Operator).
c. Can trading interest in the ATS be routed or sent to a destination operated or controlled
by the Broker-Dealer Operator or an Affiliate of the Broker-Dealer Operator?
Yes No
If yes, identify the destination and when and how trading interest is routed or sent from
the ATS to the destination.
Item 17: Closing
[a.]Are there any differences between how [orders and] trading interest [are]is treated on the
[NMS Stock ]ATS during its closing session(s) [the close] and how [orders and] trading
interest [are] is treated during its regular trading hours?
Yes No
If yes, identify and explain the differences as compared to the information provided in the
relevant Part III Items of this form.
[b. Is the treatment of orders and trading interest during the close the same for all
Subscribers and the Broker-Dealer Operator?
Yes No
If no, identify and explain any differences.]
[Item 18: Trading Outside of Regular Trading Hours
a. Does the NMS Stock ATS conduct trading outside of its regular trading hours?
Yes No
b. If yes to Item 18(a), are there any differences between trading outside of regular trading
hours and trading during regular trading hours in the NMS Stock ATS?
Yes No
If yes, identify and explain the differences.
c. If yes to Item 18(a), is the treatment of orders and trading interest outside of regular
trading hours the same for all Subscribers and the Broker-Dealer Operator?
Yes No
If no, identify and explain any differences.]
Item [19]18: Fees
580
a. Identify and describe any fees or charges for use of the [NMS Stock] ATS services,
including the type of fees (e.g., subscription, connectivity, market data), the structure of
the fees (e.g., fixed, volume-based, transaction-based), variables that impact the fees
(e.g., types of securities traded, block orders, form of connectivity to the ATS),
differentiation among types of Subscribers (e.g., broker-dealers, institutional investors,
retail), whether the fee is incorporated into the price displayed for a security (e.g.,
markups, markdowns), and range of fees (e.g., high and low).
b. Identify and describe any fees or charges for use of the [NMS Stock] ATS services that
are bundled with the Subscriber’s use of non-ATS services or products offered by the
Broker-Dealer Operator or its Affiliates, including a summary of the bundled services
and products, the structure of the fee, variables that impact the fee, differentiation among
types of Subscribers, and range of fees.
c. Identify and describe any rebate or discount of fees or charges required to be identified in
Items [19]18(a) and [19]18(b), including the type of rebate or discount, structure of the
rebate or discount, variables that impact the rebate or discount, differentiation among
types of Subscribers, and range of rebate or discount.
Item [20]19: Suspension of Trading
[a.]Explain any procedures for suspending or stopping trading on the [NMS Stock] ATS,
including the suspension of trading in individual NMS stocks, U.S. Treasury Securities,
or in an Agency Security.
[b. Are the procedures for suspending or stopping trading the same for all Subscribers and
the Broker-Dealer Operator?
Yes No
If no, identify and explain any differences.]
Item [21]20: Trade Reporting
[a.]Explain any procedures and material arrangements for reporting transactions on the
[NMS Stock] ATS, including where an ATS reports transactions and under what
circumstances.
[b. Are the procedures and material arrangements for reporting transactions on the NMS
Stock ATS the same for all Subscribers and the Broker-Dealer Operator?
Yes No
If no, identify and explain any differences.]
Item [22]21: Post-Trade Processing, Clearance and Settlement
[a.] Describe any procedures and material arrangements undertaken as a result of the
contractual agreements between the Broker-Dealer Operator and the ATS participants to
[facilitate]manage the post-trade processing (such as routing, enrichment, allocations,
matching, confirmation, affirmation, notification), clearance, and/or settlement of
transactions on the [NMS Stock] ATS (e.g., whether the ATS, Broker-Dealer Operator, or
Affiliate of either: becomes a counterparty[,]; [whether it] submits trades to a registered
clearing agency[,]; [or whether it] requires Subscribers to have arrangements with a clearing
581
firm; or terminates trades). Please include a description of any user requirements for such
procedures and material arrangements, including the type and extent of connectivity (e.g.,
FIX), and whether connectivity is to an OMS, EMS, EOMS, clearinghouse/custodian, or
other system.
[b. Are the procedures and material arrangements undertaken to facilitate the clearance and
settlement of transactions on the NMS Stock ATS the same for all Subscribers and the
Broker-Dealer Operator?
Yes No
If no, identify and explain any differences.]
Item [23]22: Market Data
[a.]Identify the sources of market data used by the [NMS Stock] ATS (e.g., proprietary feed
from a national securities exchange, feed from the securities information processor
(“SIP”), or feeds from trading venues), and how the ATS uses market data from these
sources to provide the services that it offers, including how the ATS uses market data to
determine the NBBO and protected quotes or BBO, and display, price, prioritize, execute,
and remove [orders and] trading interest [on]in the ATS.
[b. Are the sources of market data and how the NMS Stock ATS uses market data for the
services that it offers the same for all Subscribers and the Broker-Dealer Operator?
Yes No
If no, identify and explain any differences.]

Item [24]23: Order Display and Execution Access
a. If an NMS Stock ATS, [H]has the [NMS Stock] ATS displayed Subscriber orders to any
Person (other than NMS Stock ATS employees) and had an average daily share volume
of 5% or more in that NMS stock as reported by an effective transaction reporting plan or
disseminated through an automated quotation system during four of the preceding six
calendar months?
Yes No
b. If yes to Item [24]23(a), is the NMS Stock ATS required to comply with Rule
301(b)(3)(ii) of Regulation ATS?
Yes No
If yes,
i. Provide the ticker symbol for each such NMS stock displayed during each of the
last 6 calendar months;
ii. Explain how the ATS displays such orders on a national securities exchange or
through a national securities association; and
iii. Explain how the ATS provides access to such orders displayed in the national
market system equivalent to the access to other orders displayed on that national
582
securities exchange or through a national securities association pursuant to Rule
301(b)(iii) of Regulation ATS.
Item [25]24: Fair Access
a. If an NMS Stock ATS, h[H]as the [NMS Stock ]ATS executed 5% or more of the average
daily trading volume in an NMS stock, whether by itself or aggregated pursuant to Rule
301(b)(5)(ii), as reported by an effective transaction reporting plan or disseminated through
an automated quotation system during four of the preceding six calendar months?
Yes No
b. If a Government Securities ATS, has the ATS executed 3% or more of the average weekly
trading volume in U.S. Treasury Securities, whether by itself or aggregated pursuant to
Rule 301(b)(5)(ii), as reported to and disseminated by a self-regulatory organization during
four of the preceding six calendar months?
Yes No
c. If a Government Securities ATS, has the ATS executed 5% or more of the average daily
trading volume in Agency Securities, whether by itself or aggregated pursuant to Rule
301(b)(5)(ii), as reported to and disseminated by a self-regulatory organization during four
of the preceding six calendar months?
Yes No
d.[b.]If yes to Item [25]24 (a), (b), or (c), is the [NMS Stock] ATS required to comply with
Rule 301(b)(5)(iii) of Regulation ATS?
Yes No
If yes,
i. If an NMS Stock ATS, [P]provide the ticker symbol for each such NMS stock
during each of the last 6 calendar months; and
ii. Describe the reasonable written standards for granting, limiting, and denying
access to the services of[trading on] the ATS pursuant to Rule 301(b)(5)(iii)(A) of
Regulation ATS.
Item [26]25: Aggregate Platform Data
Does the [NMS Stock] ATS publish or otherwise provide to one or more Subscribers
aggregate platform-wide [order flow and execution] statistics of the ATS that are not
otherwise required disclosures under Rule 605 of Regulation NMS?
Yes No
If yes,
583
i. Attach, as Exhibit 4, the most recent disclosure of aggregate platform-wide [order
flow and execution] statistics of the ATS that are not otherwise required
disclosures under Rule 605 of Regulation NMS and that the ATS provided to one
or more Subscribers as of the end of each calendar quarter.
 Select if, in lieu of filing, {[NMS Stock] ATS} certifies that the information requested
under Exhibit 4 is available at the website provided in Part I, Item 6 of this form and
is accurate as of the date of this filing, and that the ATS will maintain its website in
accordance with the rules for amending Form ATS-N pursuant to Rule 304(a)(2)(i) to
reflect any changes to such information.
ii. Attach, as Exhibit 5, a list and explanation of the categories or metrics for the
aggregate platform-wide [order flow and execution] statistics provided as Exhibit
4 and explain the criteria or methodology used to calculate aggregate platformwide [order flow and execution] statistics.
 Select if, in lieu of filing, {[NMS Stock] ATS} certifies that the information requested
under Exhibit 5 is available at the website provided in Part I, Item 6 of this form and is
accurate as of the date of this filing, and that the ATS will maintain its website in
accordance with the rules for amending Form ATS-N pursuant to Rule 304(a)(2)(i) to
reflect any changes to such information