Conformed to Federal Register version
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
17 CFR Part 240, 242, and 249
[RELEASE NO. 34-94313; FILE NO. S7-08-22]
RIN 3235-AM34
Short Position and Short Activity Reporting by Institutional Investment Managers
AGENCY: Securities and Exchange Commission.
ACTION: Proposed rule.
SUMMARY: The Securities and Exchange Commission (the “Commission”) is proposing a new rule
and related form pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”), including
Section 13(f)(2), which was added by Section 929X of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and
Consumer Protection Act (“DFA”). The proposed rule and related form are designed to provide greater
transparency through the publication of short sale related data to investors and other market participants.
Under the rule, institutional investment managers that meet or exceed a specified reporting threshold
would be required to report, on a monthly basis using the proposed form, specified short position data and
short activity data for equity securities. In addition, the Commission is proposing a new rule under the
Exchange Act to prescribe a new “buy to cover” order marking requirement, and proposing to amend the
national market system plan governing the consolidated audit trail (“CAT”) created pursuant to the
Exchange Act to require the reporting of “buy to cover” order marking information and reliance on the
bona fide market making exception in the Commission’s short sale rules. The Commission is publishing
the text of the proposed amendments to the CAT NMS Plan in a separate notice.
DATES: Comments should be received on or before April 26, 2022.
ADDRESSES: Comments should be submitted by any of the following methods:
Electronic Comments:
• Use the Commission’s Internet comment form (https://www.sec.gov/rules/submitcomments.htm);
or
2
• Send an e-mail to rule-comments@sec.gov. Please include File Number S7-08-22 on the subject
line.
Paper Comments:
• Send paper comments to: Vanessa A. Countryman, Secretary, Securities and Exchange
Commission, 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549-1090.
All submissions should refer to File Number S7-08-22. This file number should be included on
the subject line if e-mail is used. To help us process and review your comments more efficiently, please
use only one method. The Commission will post all comments on the Commission’s Internet website
(https://www.sec.gov/rules/proposed.shtml). Comments are also available for website viewing and
printing in the Commission’s Public Reference Room, 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549, on
official business days between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 3:00 p.m. Operating conditions may limit
access to the Commission’s public reference room. All comments received will be posted without
change. Persons submitting comments are cautioned that the Commission does not redact or edit personal
identifying information from comment submissions. Commenters should submit only information that
they wish to make available publicly.
Studies, memoranda, or other substantive items may be added by the Commission or staff to the
comment file during this rulemaking. A notification of the inclusion in the comment file of any such
materials will be made available on the Commission's website. To ensure direct electronic receipt of such
notifications, sign up through the “Stay Connected” option at https://www.sec.gov/ to receive
notifications by email.
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Timothy M. Riley, Branch Chief; Patrice M. Pitts,
Special Counsel; James R. Curley, Special Counsel; Quinn Kane, Special Counsel; Jessica Kloss,
Attorney Advisor; Brendan McLeod, Attorney Advisor; and Josephine J. Tao, Assistant Director, Office
of Trading Practices, Division of Trading and Markets, Securities and Exchange Commission, 100 F
Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549, at (202) 551-5777.
3
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION
The Commission today is proposing for comment new rule 13f-2 (“Proposed Rule 13f-2”) (17
CFR 240.13f-2) and related form (“Proposed Form SHO”) (17 CFR 249.333) under the Exchange Act.
Proposed Rule 13f-2 would require certain institutional investment managers to report, on a monthly basis
on new Proposed Form SHO, certain short position data and short activity data for certain equity
securities as prescribed in Proposed Rule 13f-2.
The Commission is also proposing for comment a new rule prescribing a “buy to cover” order
marking requirement under Regulation SHO (“Proposed Rule 205”) (17 CFR 242.205), and amendments
to the national market system plan governing the CAT, pursuant to Rules 608(a)(2) [17 CFR
242.608(a)(2)] and 608(b)(2) [17 CFR 242.608(b)(2)] of the Exchange Act (“Proposal to Amend CAT”)
that enable the Commission to propose amendments to any effective national market system (“NMS”)
plan. For the text of the proposed amendments to the CAT NMS Plan, please see the Notice of Proposed
Amendments to the National Market System Plan Governing the Consolidated Audit Trail for Purposes of
Short Sale-related Data Collection.1
Proposed Rule 13f-2, Proposed Form SHO, Proposed Rule 205, and the Proposal to Amend CAT
are hereinafter collectively referred to as the “Proposals.”
 1 See Notice of the Text of the Proposed Amendments to the National Market System Plan Governing the
Consolidated Audit Trail for Purposes of Short Sale-related Data Collection, Exchange Act Release No. 34-94314
(Feb. 25, 2022).
4
Table of Contents:
I. Introduction
II. Background
A. Enhancing Short Sale Transparency
B. Existing Short Sale Data
C. Prior Nonpublic Short Sale Reporting by Certain Investment Managers to the
Commission
D. Petitions and Commentary Regarding Short Position Disclosure
III. Proposed Rule 13f-2 and Proposed Form SHO
A. Proposed Form SHO Filing Requirement Through EDGAR
B. Proposed Form SHO
C. Publication of Information by the Commission
D. Reporting Thresholds
E. Supplementing Current Short Sale Data Available From FINRA and the Exchanges
F. Request for Comments
IV. Potential Alternative Approach to Proposed Rule 13f-2 Regarding How the Information
Reported on Proposed Form SHO is Published by the Commission
V. Proposed Amendment to Regulation SHO to Aid Short Sale Data Collection
VI. Proposal to Amend CAT
A. “Buy to Cover” Information
B. Reliance on Bona Fide Market Making Exception
C. Request for Comments
VII. Paperwork Reduction Act Analysis
A. Background
B. Burdens for Managers under Proposed Rule 13f-2 and Proposed Form SHO
C. Burdens for Broker-Dealers Under Proposed Rule 205
D. Burdens and Costs Associated with the Proposal to Amend CAT
E. Collection of Information is Mandatory
F. Confidentiality
G. Request for Comments
VIII. Economic Analysis
A. Introduction
B. Economic Justification
C. Baseline
D. Economic Effects
E. Efficiency, Competition and Capital Formation
F. Reasonable Alternatives
G. Request for Comments
IX. Regulatory Flexibility Act Certification
X. Consideration of Impact on the Economy
Statutory Authority and Text of Proposed Rules 13f-2 and 205, and Form SHO
5
I. Introduction
A short sale involves the sale of a security that the seller does not own, or a sale that is
consummated by the delivery of a security borrowed by, or for the account of, the seller.2
 Short selling
has long been used in financial markets as a means to profit from an expected downward price movement,
to provide liquidity in response to unanticipated demand,3 or to hedge the risk of a long position in the
same security or a related security.4
 Short selling has also been shown to improve pricing efficiency by
providing information to the market.
5
 While short selling can serve useful market purposes, it also may
be used to drive down the price of a security, to accelerate a declining market in a security, or to
manipulate stock prices.6
The Commission has plenary authority under Section 10(a) of the Exchange Act to regulate short
sales of securities registered on a national securities exchange, as necessary or appropriate in the public
interest or for the protection of investors. Current regulatory requirements applicable to short sales of

2 See 17 CFR 242.200(a).
3 Market liquidity is generally provided through short selling by market professionals, such as market
makers, who offset temporary imbalances in the buying and selling interest for securities. Short sales effected in the
market add to the selling interest of stock available to purchasers and reduce the risk that the price paid by investors
is artificially high because of a temporary contraction of selling interest. Short sellers covering their sales also may
add to the buying interest of stock available to sellers. See Amendments to Regulation SHO, Exchange Act Release
No. 61595 (Feb. 26, 2010), 75 FR 11232, 11235 (Mar. 10, 2010) (“Rule 201 Adopting Release”).
4 See Short Sales, Exchange Act Release No. 50103 (July 28, 2004), 69 FR 48008 (Aug. 6, 2004)
(“Regulation SHO Adopting Release”).
5 See, e.g., Phil Mackintosh, How Short Selling Makes Markets More Efficient, NASDAQ (Oct. 1, 2020),
available at https://www.nasdaq.com/articles/how-short-selling-makes-markets-more-efficient-2020-10-01.
Efficient markets require that prices fully reflect all buy and sell interest. Market participants who believe a stock is
overvalued may engage in short sales in an attempt to profit from a perceived divergence of prices from true
economic values. Such short sellers add to stock pricing efficiency because their transactions inform the market of
their evaluation of future stock price performance. This evaluation is reflected in the resulting market price of the
security. See Rule 201 Adopting Release, 75 FR at 11235 n.29 and 30. See generally discussion infra Part VIII.D.2.
6 See, e.g., Division of Economic and Risk Analysis, Short Sale Position and Transaction Reporting 6-7
(June 5, 2014) (“DERA 417(a)(2) Study”), available at https://www.sec.gov/files/short-sale-position-andtransaction-reporting%2C0.pdf (This is a study of the Staff of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, which
represents the views of Commission staff, and is not a rule, regulation, or statement of the Commission. The
Commission has neither approved nor disapproved the content of this study and, like all staff statements, it has no
legal force or effect, does not alter or amend applicable law, and creates no new or additional obligations for any
person.); Rule 201 Adopting Release, 75 FR at 11235 (describing a “bear raid” where an equity security is sold short
in an effort to drive down the price of the security by creating an imbalance of sell-side interest, as an example of
unrestricted short selling that could “exacerbate a declining market in a security by increasing pressure from the sellside, eliminating bids, and causing a further reduction in the price of a security by creating an appearance that the
security’s price is falling for fundamental reasons, when the decline, or the speed of the decline, is being driven by
other factors”). See generally discussion infra Part VIII.D.1.
6
equity securities are generally found in Regulation SHO, which became effective on January 3, 2005.7

Regulation SHO imposes four general requirements with respect to short sales of equity securities. It
requires broker-dealers to properly mark sale orders as “long,” “short,” or “short exempt;”8 before
effecting a short sale, to locate a source of shares that the seller reasonably believes can be timely
delivered (commonly referred to as the “locate” requirement);
9 and to close out failures to deliver that
result from long or short sales.
10 Further, Regulation SHO imposes a short sale price test circuit
breaker.11 In addition, the Commission adopted an antifraud provision, Rule 10b-21, to address failures
to deliver in securities that have been associated with “naked” short selling.12 As discussed below,
Proposed Rule 13f-2 would apply to equity securities that are subject to Regulation SHO in order to be
consistent with those requirements.
DFA Section 929X added Section 13(f)(2) of the Exchange Act, titled “Reports by institutional
investment managers,” which requires the Commission to prescribe rules to make certain short sale data
publicly available no less frequently than monthly.13 Specifically, Section 13(f)(2) provides that the
Commission shall prescribe rules providing for the public disclosure of the name of the issuer and the
title, class, CUSIP number, aggregate amount of the number of short sales of each security, and any
 7 See Regulation SHO Adopting Release, supra note 4.
8 See 17 CFR 242.200(g). A broker or dealer must mark all sell orders of an equity security as “long,”
“short,” or “short exempt.” A sell order may only be marked “long” if the seller is “deemed to own” the security
being sold and either (i) the security to be delivered is in the physical possession or control of the broker or dealer;
or (ii) it is reasonably expected that the security will be in the physical possession or control of the broker or dealer
no later than the settlement of the transaction. See id. A person is deemed to own a security only to the extent that
he has a net long position in such security. See 17 CFR 242.200(c). Once marked as long, short, or short-exempt,
the order mark should not be changed regardless of any subsequent changes in the person’s net position. See OZ
Mgmt., Exchange Act Release No. 75445 (July 14, 2015) (settled) (where OZ Management submitted short sale
orders to its executing broker, but identified such sales as long sales to its prime broker, causing books and records
of the prime broker to be inaccurate), available at https://www.sec.gov/litigation/admin/2015/34-75445.pdf.
9 See 17 CFR 242.203(b)(1) through (2).
10 See 17 CFR 242.204.
11 See 17 CFR 242.201.
12 See Exchange Act Release No. 58774 (Oct. 14, 2008), 73 FR 61666 (Oct. 17, 2008).
13 Pub. L. 111-203, § 929X, 124 Stat. 1376, 1870 (July 21, 2010).
7
additional information determined by the Commission following the end of the reporting period. At a
minimum, such public disclosure shall occur every month.14
Proposed Rule 13f-2 is designed to provide greater transparency through the publication of
certain short sale related data to investors and other market participants by requiring certain institutional
investment managers to report to the Commission, on a monthly basis on Proposed Form SHO, certain
short position data and short activity data for certain equity securities. More information about the short
sale activity and short positions of institutional investment managers (“Managers”)15 may promote greater
risk management among market participants, and may facilitate capital formation to the extent that greater
transparency bolsters confidence in the markets.
Proposed Rule 205 would establish a new “buy to cover” order marking requirement for certain
purchase orders effected by a broker-dealer for its own account or for the account of another person at the
broker-dealer. The Proposal to Amend CAT would require CAT reporting firms to report short sale data
not currently required that would enhance regulators’ understanding of the lifecycle of a trade—from
order origination, including an order’s mark, through order execution and allocation. Proposed Rule 205
and the Proposal to Amend CAT are intended to supplement the short sale data made available to the
Commission in Proposed Form SHO filings by requiring the reporting to CAT of (i) “buy to cover” order
marking information and (ii) reliance on the bona fide market making exception in Regulation SHO. The
Commission believes greater transparency of short sale activity and short position data would improve the
Commission’s oversight of financial markets and compliance with existing regulations, as well as
facilitate regulators’ ability to reconstruct significant market events, which may, in turn, improve the
Commission’s ability to respond to similar events in the future.16 This could, in turn, benefit the public
 14 15 U.S.C. 78m(f)(2).
15 As defined in Section 13(f)(6)(A) of the Exchange Act and for purposes of Proposed Rule 13f-2,
“institutional investment manager” includes any person, other than a natural person, investing in or buying and
selling securities for its own account, and any person exercising investment discretion with respect to the account of
any other person. As such, the term “institutional investment manager” typically can include investment advisers,
banks, insurance companies, broker-dealers, pension funds and corporations. See also Instructions to Form 13F.
16 See generally Part VIII.D.1 (discussing how the Commission could have used the data provided under the
Proposals to address market events such as the recent market volatility associated with meme stocks, and how the
data provided under the Proposals could have aided the Commission in examining that market event).
8
and market participants by aiding the Commission in more effectively maintaining a fair and orderly
market.
The Commission believes that the short sale related information that would be collected under the
Proposals, particularly the required disclosures of Proposed Form SHO and the aggregated data published
pursuant to Proposed Rule 13f-2, would fill an information gap for market participants and regulators by
providing insights into the lifecycle of a short sale. In contrast to data related to short sales that is
currently collected and published by FINRA and most exchanges, the aggregated information derived
from information reported on Proposed Form SHO and published pursuant to Proposed Rule 13f-2 would
reflect the timing of increases and decreases in the reported short positions.17 Such aggregated
information would help inform market participants regarding the overall short sale activity by reporting
Managers. The information reported on Proposed Form SHO, along with the information gleaned
through the operation of Proposed Rule 205 and the Proposal to Amend CAT would help the Commission
and SROs to overcome current challenges in using data from CAT to estimate short positions and changes
in short positions.18
The Commission acknowledges that the Proposals would entail costs to some market
participants—more specifically, compliance costs associated with determining whether the Manager is
required to report on Proposed Form SHO and, if so, with filing Proposed Form SHO, pursuant to
Proposed Rule 13f-2, and the costs associated with accommodating the additional order marks, pursuant
to Proposed Rule 205 and the Proposal to Amend CAT. Implementing Proposed Rule 13f-2 and
Proposed Form SHO could also reduce certain industry participants’ incentives to gather information
about the marketplace and specific securities. For example, requiring disclosure of short positions could
facilitate copycat trading that, in turn, could limit the profit an investor may earn using strategies
developed in connection with its marketplace information gathering efforts.
19 In addition, requiring
 17 See generally infra Part VIII.C.4 (discussing existing short selling data).
18 See generally infra Parts VIII.B and VIII.C.4.iv (discussing challenges of extracting short sale
information—e.g., to estimate positions and to track how those positions change over time—from CAT).
19 See generally infra Parts VIII.C.5 and VIII.F (discussing the impact of copycat trading strategies on
competition).
9
disclosure of large short positions, even in an aggregated format, could make holders of such short
positions more susceptible to short squeezes. To the extent that these circumstances could reduce the
value of marketplace information gathered to develop a short selling strategy, they could discourage
investors from making an effort to gather marketplace information. A reduction in information collection
could harm price efficiency, which could, in turn, affect capital allocations and managerial decisions.
Aggregating short sale activity and short position information across all reporting Managers for each
reported equity security prior to publication and publishing such data on a delay would likely mitigate—
though not fully eliminate—the potential negative economic effects of the reporting requirements and
associated information disclosure of Proposed Rule 13f-2 and Proposed Form SHO.
Proposed Rule 13f-2 and Proposed Form SHO are designed to address the requirements of
Section 13(f)(2). In developing Proposed Rule 13f-2, the Commission recognizes the need to consider the
important role short selling plays in the market as well as the benefits of providing more disclosure about
short selling. For reasons discussed more fully below, the Commission believes Proposed Rule 13f-2
represents an appropriate balance by offering increased transparency into the short selling activities of
certain Managers with large short positions through the dissemination of aggregated information reported
on new, stand-alone, Proposed Form SHO. The information reported on Proposed Form SHO would
provide investors, market participants, and the Commission with short sale data that supplements what is
currently available, free or on a fee basis, from FINRA and most exchanges.20 Proposed Rule 13f-2 and
Proposed Form SHO would improve the utility of information regularly available to the Commission, and
made available as appropriate to self-regulatory organizations (“SROs”), that could be used to examine
market behavior and recreate significant market events. It would also increase information available to
market participants and could assist in their understanding of the level of negative sentiment and the
actions of short sellers collectively. While the primary focus of Proposed Rule 13f-2 and Proposed Form
SHO is transparency, the Commission’s regular access to the data reported on Proposed Form SHO
would also bolster its oversight of short selling. In addition, Proposed Rule 205 and the Proposal to
 20 See infra Parts II.B and VIII.C.4 (discussing short sale data that is currently available and how that
compares to the data to be reported on Proposed Form SHO).
10
Amend CAT would enhance the information regularly available to the Commission and other regulators
that could be used to oversee short selling and to reconstruct significant market events. In turn, the
Commission’s more accurate and timely reconstruction and response to market events could contribute to
overall investor protections, particularly in times of increased market volatility.21
II. Background
A. Enhancing Short Sale Transparency
In recent years, market volatility associated with short selling has brought heightened attention to
the difference in long and short position reporting requirements, and, more generally, the lack of
transparency into the circumstances surrounding short sale transactions.22 The Commission has received
requests to increase transparency into short sale related activity through the adoption of reporting
requirements similar to those currently required by holders of long positions above certain thresholds.23
 21 See infra Part VIII.D.1.
22 See, e.g., Letter from Elizabeth King, Corporate Secretary, NYSE Group, and James M. Cudahy, President
and CEO, National Investor Relations Institute (Oct. 7, 2015, Petition 4-689) (stating that rulemaking under 929X
“provides an opportunity to implement meaningful public disclosure standards for short-sale activity, consistent with
that currently required for institutional investment managers under Section 13(f) of the Exchange Act for long
position reporting”), available at https://www.sec.gov/rules/petitions/2015/petn4-689.pdf [hereinafter “NYSE
Petition”]; Letter from Edward S. Knight, Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Chief Regulatory Officer,
NASDAQ (Dec. 7, 2015, Petition 4-691) (requesting that the Commission “take swift action to promulgate rules to
require public disclosure by investors of short positions in parity with the disclosure regime applicable to long
positions”), available at https://www.sec.gov/rules/petitions/2015/petn4-691.pdf [hereinafter “NASDAQ Petition”].
See also Letter from E. Carter Esham, Executive Vice President, Emerging Companies, Biotechnology Innovation
Organization (BIO) (Mar. 11, 2016) (applauding reforms to the short disclosure framework proposed in the
NASDAQ Petition and in the NYSE Petition and advocating for the promulgation of rules to ensure parity between
public disclosures required of investors taking long and short positions), available at
https://www.sec.gov/comments/4-691/4691-5.pdf; Letter from Andrew D. Demott, Jr., Chief Operating Officer,
Superior Uniform Group (supporting NASDAQ Petition and advocating adoption of disclosure requirements for
short sellers), available at https://www.sec.gov/comments/4-691/4691-10.pdf. Developments in the market with
regard to “meme” stocks in early 2021, some of which were widely reported as involving large short sellers, also
highlighted a need for more consistent and consolidated short sale information. See, e.g., Robert Smith, Laurence
Fletcher, Madison Darbyshire, Eric Platt and Hannah Murphy, ‘Short squeeze’ spreads as day traders hunt next
GameStop, FIN. TIMES (Jan. 27, 2021), available at https://www.ft.com/content/acc1dbfe-80a4-4b63-90dd05f27f21ceb2; Are “meme stocks” harmless fun, or a threat to the financial old guard?, ECONOMIST (July 6, 2021).
See also Sharon Nunn and Adam Kulam, Short-Selling Restrictions During Covid-19 (Jan. 12, 2021), available at
https://som.yale.edu/story/2021/short-selling-restrictions-during-covid-19 for a discussion of global short selling
regulatory responses to the Covid-19 pandemic.
23 See, e.g., NYSE Petition and NASDAQ Petition, supra note 22. See also Final Report of the 2021 SEC
Government-Business Forum on Small Business Capital Formation (May 2021), available at
https://www.sec.gov/files/2021_OASB_Annual_Forum_Report_FINAL_508.pdf (requesting the Commission act to
increase the transparency of short selling activities).
11
As noted above, Section 13(f)(2) requires the Commission to prescribe rules to make certain short
sale data publicly available no less frequently than monthly. After carefully considering the possible
economic effects of various approaches, the Commission believes that publication of aggregated gross
short position data of certain Managers, and certain related activity data, as discussed in more detail
below, would provide valuable transparency to market participants and regulators.
24 The Commission
believes that the data resulting from Proposed Rule 13f-2 would help to provide valuable context to
overall short position data currently available by distinguishing directional short selling of Managers from
short sale activity effected pursuant to hedging as well as that of market makers and liquidity providers.25
In addition, the Commission believes that the data would provide regulators with a more complete picture
of significant market events by shedding additional light on the potential role of short selling activity.
26
In determining the proposed reporting requirements under Proposed Rule 13f-2 and Proposed
Form SHO, the Commission is mindful of concerns that certain short selling activity can be carried out
pursuant to potentially abusive or manipulative schemes. For instance, market manipulators may seek to
spread false information about an issuer whose stock they sold short in order to profit from a resulting
decline in the stock’s price.27 The Commission has previously noted various other forms of manipulation
that can be advanced by short sellers to illegally manipulate stock prices, such as “bear raids.”28 As
 24 See infra Part VIII.D (stating that Proposed Rule 13f-2, in conjunction with Proposed Rule 205 and the
Proposal to Amend CAT, could help to advance the policy goal of investor protection by deterring market
manipulation, and aid regulators in reconstructing significant market events and observing systemic risks).
25 See infra Part VIII.C, VIII.D.
26 See infra Part VIII.D.1 (stating that “because short positions often take some time to create, the
Commission could have attempted to quickly identify individual short sellers with large short positions in the
various meme stocks in January 2021 based on the most recent reports; then the Commission could have used the
enhanced CAT data to understand how these short sellers traded during the heightened volatility.”).
27 See infra Part VIII.D.1 (stating that “[i]n ‘short and distort’ strategies, which are illegal, the goal of
manipulators is to first short a stock and then engage in a campaign to spread unverified bad news about the stock
with the objective of panicking other investors into selling their stock in order to drive the price down”; stating
further that “[i]f successful, the scheme can drive down the price, allowing the manipulators to profit when they
‘buy-to-cover’ their short position at the reduced price.”). See also, John D. Finnerty, Short Selling, Death Spiral
Convertibles, and the Profitability of Stock Manipulation, SSRN (2005) at n.8, available at
https://www.sec.gov/comments/s7-08-08/s70808-318.pdf (stating that the posting of “false notices on electronic
bulletin boards in Internet chat rooms is an example of the type of manipulative behavior that is difficult for
regulators to monitor”).
28 Proposed Rule: Short Sales, Exchange Act Release No. 48709, (Oct. 28, 2003), 68 FR 62972 (Nov. 6,
2003), available at https://www.sec.gov/rules/proposed/34-48709.htm (stating that “[a]lthough short selling serves
useful market purposes, it also may be used to illegally manipulate stock prices. One example is the ‘bear raid’
12
discussed below, greater transparency into the activities of Managers holding large short positions in a
security could help regulators’ oversight of short selling and deter these and other types of manipulative
short selling campaigns potentially by alerting regulators to suspicious activity.29
B. Existing Short Sale Data
There are currently multiple sources of public and nonpublic data related to short sales.30 FINRA
and most exchanges collect and publish daily aggregate short sale volume data, and on a one month
delayed basis publish information regarding short sale transactions.31 However, the Commission
understands that some exchanges only make certain data available for a fee. In addition, FINRA collects
and aggregates short interest data32 from broker-dealer member firms, by security, twice each month.33

where an equity security is sold short in an effort to drive down the price of the security by creating an imbalance of
sell-side interest. Further, unrestricted short selling can exacerbate a declining market in a security by increasing
pressure from the sell-side, eliminating bids, and causing a further reduction in the price of a security by creating an
appearance that the security price is falling for fundamental reasons.”).
29 See Part VIII.D.1 (stating that “if a short and distort campaign is suspected, then detecting this behavior via
the activity and positions data in Proposed Form SHO would be easier than it would be using current data. Short
and distort campaigns are more likely to occur in stocks with lower market capitalizations with less public
information. Consequently, among these stocks it may not, in dollar terms, take a very large short position to reach
the 2.5% threshold in securities of smaller reporting issuers or the $500,000 threshold in securities of non-reporting
issuers to report on Proposed Form SHO. As a result, it is likely that an entity engaging in such a practice would be
required to report Proposed Form SHO data. Consequently, if short and distort type behavior were to be suspected,
then the Commission would be more likely to identify individuals with large short positions and could thus quickly
focus any inquiries on entities in an economic position to potentially profit from manipulation.”).
30 Additionally, the Commission publishes on its website fail to deliver data, which can result from both long
and short sales, twice per month for all equity securities. Securities and Exchange Commission, Fails-to-Deliver
Data, available at https://www.sec.gov/data/foiadocsfailsdatahtm. Further, the CAT created pursuant to Rule 613 of
Regulation NMS gives regulators, including the Commission, access to comprehensive information regarding the
lifecycle of a trade—from origination, including an order’s mark (i.e., “long,” “short,” or “short exempt”), through
execution and allocation. See Part VI. Notably, CAT is currently structured to collect information, but not to
disseminate it.
31 This data is transaction by transaction for each security without identification of the broker-dealer or short
seller.
32 See Short Interest — What It Is, What It Is Not, FINRA INV’R INSIGHTS (Apr. 12, 2021), available at
https://www.finra.org/investors/insights/short-interest (stating that “‘short interest’ is a snapshot of the total open
short positions in a security existing on the books and records of brokerage firms on a given date. Short interest data
is collected for all stocks—both those that are listed and traded on an exchange and those that are traded over-thecounter (OTC). FINRA and U.S. exchange rules require that brokerage firms report short interest data to FINRA on
a per-security basis for all customer and proprietary firm accounts twice a month, around the middle of the month
and again at the end of each month.”).
33 See infra Part VIII.C.4.i. FINRA recently sought comment on a variety of potential enhancements to its
short interest position program. See FINRA Regulatory Notice 21-19 (June 2021), available at
https://www.finra.org/rules-guidance/notices/21-19. Any such changes to FINRA rules would be filed with the
Commission and published for notice and public comment, pursuant to Exchange Act Section 19(b) and Rule 19b-4
thereunder. See also FINRA Rule 4560. Short Interest Reporting, available at https://www.finra.org/rules-
13
FINRA provides this aggregated short interest data to the appropriate listing exchange for publication,
some of which charge a fee for access to the data. For over-the-counter (“OTC”) securities, which are not
listed on an exchange, FINRA publishes the aggregated short interest data itself.34 FINRA’s aggregation
of the short interest data for each security does not disclose the identity of reporting market participants or
the size of any individual short position.
C. Prior Nonpublic Short Sale Reporting by Certain Institutional Investment
Managers to the Commission
In October 2008, the Commission adopted interim temporary Rule 10a-3T, which required certain
institutional investment managers to file weekly nonpublic reports with the Commission on Form SH
regarding their short sales and positions in Section 13(f) securities, other than options.35 Rule 10a-3T
required reporting of short positions that were either greater than 0.25% of shares outstanding or $10
million in fair market value. This temporary rule was adopted in the wake of the 2008 financial crisis in
response to concerns about high levels of volatility associated with short selling and was specifically
intended to provide the Commission with information to evaluate whether its short selling regulations
were working as intended.36 Rule 10a-3T remained in effect through July 2009, at which time the

guidance/rulebooks/finra-rules/4560 (requiring FINRA member firms to maintain a record of total “short” positions
in all customer and proprietary firm accounts and to regularly report such information to FINRA).
34 For stocks traded OTC, FINRA collects and publishes equity short interest information free on its Overthe-Counter Equities page, available at https://otce.finra.org/otce/equityShortInterest.
35 Disclosure of Short Sales and Short Positions by Institutional Investment Managers, Exchange Act Release
No. 58785 (Oct. 15, 2008), 73 FR 61678 (Oct. 17, 2008). The rule extended the reporting requirements established
by the Commission’s Emergency Orders dated September 18, 2008, September 21, 2008, and October 2, 2008, with
some modifications. See Emergency Order Pursuant to Section 12(k)(2) of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934
Taking Temporary Action to Respond to Market Developments, Exchange Act Release No. 58591 (Sept. 18, 2008),
73 FR 55175 (Sept. 24, 2008); Amendment to Emergency Order Pursuant to Section 12(k)(2) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 Taking Temporary Action to Respond to Market Developments, Exchange Act Release No.
58591A (Sept. 21, 2008), 73 FR 55557 (Sept. 25, 2008) (amending the September 18, 2008 Emergency Order
(“Order”) to clarify certain technical issues and when the information filed by the institutional investment managers
on a nonpublic basis would be made public by the Commission on a delayed basis); Amendment to Order and Order
Extending Emergency Order Pursuant to Section 12(k)(2) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Taking Temporary
Action to Respond to Market Developments, Exchange Act Release No. 58724 (Oct. 2, 2008), 73 FR 58987 (Oct. 8,
2008) (extending effectiveness of the Order through October 17, 2008, and stating that the Forms SH filed under the
Order would remain nonpublic to the extent permitted by law).
36 See Disclosure of Short Sales and Short Positions by Institutional Investment Managers, Exchange Act
Release No. 58785 (Oct. 15, 2008), 73 FR 61678 (Oct. 17, 2008).
14
Commission stated that it and its staff were working with several SROs to make publicly available certain
information related to short sale activity, such as short sale volume and transaction data.37
Forms SH were nonpublic filings. The Commission’s determination to maintain the
confidentiality of the information disclosed on Form SH was based in part on the concern that requiring
public disclosure may have had the unintended consequence of giving rise to imitative short selling,
thereby exacerbating already extreme levels of market volatility observed during the 2008 financial
crisis.
38 The Commission also stated that implementing a nonpublic, rather than public, disclosure
requirement would help to prevent the potential for sudden and excessive fluctuations of securities prices
and disruption in the functioning of the securities markets that could threaten fair and orderly markets.39
Moreover, the Commission stated at the time that requiring nonpublic submission of the form may help
prevent artificial volatility in securities as well as further downward swings that are caused by short
selling while also providing the Commission with valuable information to combat market manipulation.40
Just before interim temporary Rule 10a-3T was set to expire in August 2009, the Commission stated that
it would continue to examine whether additional measures are needed to further enhance market quality
and transparency, as well as address short selling abuses.41
D. Petitions and Commentary Regarding Short Position Disclosure
NASDAQ, NYSE, and the National Investor Relations Institute, have previously petitioned the
Commission requesting that, pursuant to DFA Section 929X, it require disclosure of individual short
positions similar to the disclosures required under Section 13(f)(1) or Regulations 13D and 13G for
long-position reporting.42 The petitions also request that “short position” or “short interest” be interpreted
 37 Press Release, Securities and Exchange Commission, SEC Takes Steps to Curtail Abusive Short Sales and
Increase Market Transparency (July 27, 2009), available at https://www.sec.gov/news/press/2009/2009-172.htm
(stating that the Commission and its staff were working with several SROs to make certain short sale volume and
transaction data available through SRO websites).
38 Amendment to Order and Order Extending Emergency Order Pursuant to Section 12(k)(2) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 Taking Temporary Action to Respond to Market Developments, Exchange Act Release No.
58724 (Oct. 2, 2008), 73 FR 58987 (Oct. 8, 2008).
39 Id. at 58987.
40 Id.
41 See supra note 37.
42 See supra note 22.
15
broadly to capture not only traditional short sales but also derivative and other transactions having the
same economic impact. Among these petitioners’ concerns is that the lack of public disclosure of
individual short positions may facilitate accumulations of significant positions in an issuer’s securities
and potentially compromise investors’ ability to accurately evaluate market movements in those
securities.43 They further argue that the benefits associated with requiring individual, public disclosure of
short selling would include allowing investors to more accurately evaluate market movements and make
more informed investment decisions, reducing manipulative conduct, increasing investor confidence, and
improving issuers’ ability to engage with short sellers.
While some market participants have noted instances when public announcements by short sellers
have aided the market in ultimately discovering the truth behind fraudulent activity,44 critics of that
position have countered with ways short sellers may unfairly harm issuers that are not engaged in
fraudulent activity.45 Other such critics of short selling have posited that issuers may be unduly harmed46
even when short sellers suffer through normal market forces.47
In response to requests for comment on the short sale reporting study required by Section
417(a)(2) of DFA,48 one commenter stated that identification of a market participant that has engaged in a
short sale may have the unintended consequence of exposing investors to the risk of short squeezes.
49
 43 Id.
44 See, e.g., Jane Lewis, Jim Chanos: the short-seller who called Enron, MONEYWEEK (Sept. 28, 2018),
available at https://moneyweek.com/495688/jim-chanos-the-short-seller-who-called-enronarticle.
45 See, e.g., Duncan Lamont, GameStop: the ethics of short sellers, SCHRODERS (Jan. 29, 2021), available at
https://www.schroders.com/en/insights/economics/are-short-sellers-ethical/; Ariel D. Multak, The Big Patent Short:
Hedge Fund Challenges to Pharmaceutical Patents and the Need for Financial Regulation, 23 FORDHAM J. CORP. &
FIN. L. 301 (2017), available at https://news.law.fordham.edu/jcfl/wp-content/uploads/sites/5/2018/01/MultakNote.pdf.
46 See, e.g., Tom Brennan, How Short-Sellers Almost Destroyed U.S. Banking, CNBC (Aug. 5, 2010),
available at https://www.cnbc.com/id/28239960.
47 See, e.g., Alex Rosenberg, When shorting goes wrong: Zulily crushes the bears, CNBC (Aug. 18, 2015),
available at https://www.cnbc.com/2015/08/17/when-shorting-goes-wrong-zulily-crushes-the-bears.html.
48 Short Sale Reporting Study Required by Dodd-Frank Act Section 417(a)(2), Exchange Act Release No.
64383 (May 3, 2011), 76 FR 26787 (May 9, 2011). See also DERA 417(a)(2) Study, supra note 6. The DERA
417(a)(2) Study was a study conducted by Commission staff in the Division of Economic and Risk Analysis
analyzing the feasibility, costs, and benefits of real-time reporting of short positions in publicly listed securities.
49 See Letter from Stuart J. Kaswell, Executive Vice President & Managing Director, General Counsel,
Managed Funds Association (June 22, 2011) (“2011 MFA Letter”), available at https://www.sec.gov/comments/4-
16
This commenter also maintained that individual public disclosure could chill short selling and thereby
deny the marketplace certain resulting benefits, such as market liquidity, and pricing efficiency.50
Design of Proposals. As discussed more fully throughout the release, the Commission believes
that Proposed Rule 13f-2 appropriately balances these competing interests. Proposed Rule 13f-2 would
result in the publication of certain short sale related data, which would provide additional transparency to
market participants, but data would be aggregated across all reporting Managers for each reported equity
security prior to publication. The Commission believes that publicly disclosing the identity of individual
reporting Managers may not currently be necessary to advance the policy goal of increasing public
transparency into short selling activity, and that aggregating across reporting Managers would help
safeguard against the concerns noted above related to retaliation against short sellers, including short
squeezes, and the potential chilling effect that such public disclosure may have on short selling. Further,
by establishing minimum reporting thresholds, Proposed Rule 13f-2 would apply only to Managers with
large gross short positions in a security, and would not generally apply to market participants that do not
carry large overnight gross short positions in equity securities.
Managers that meet a specified reporting threshold, as discussed below, would be required to file
Proposed Form SHO with the Commission within 14 calendar days after the end of the calendar month.
The Commission would then publish aggregated information derived from data reported on Proposed
Form SHO. The Commission estimates that it will publish such aggregated information within one
month after the end of the reporting calendar month — e.g., for data reported by Managers on Proposed
Form SHO for the month of January, the Commission would expect to publish aggregated information
derived from such data no later than the last day of February. This additional time prior to publication of

627/4627-137.pdf; see also Letter from Matthew Newell, Associate General Counsel, Managed Funds Association
(Sept. 6, 2019), available at https://www.sec.gov/comments/s7-26-18/s72618-6082119-191807.pdf.
50 In this regard, the commenter in the 2011 MFA Letter stated that individual public disclosure would cause
potential short sellers to either refrain from or minimize engaging in short sale transactions, including hedging
activity, to avoid triggering any threshold for requiring individual public disclosure. The commenter further stated
that public disclosure of individual short positions could be misleading to investors (stating that investors frequently
short a stock for portfolio risk management purposes) and could potentially enable market participants to reverse
engineer a reporting firm’s trading strategies. In addition, the commenter stated that individual public disclosure
could expose market participants to the risk of a “short squeeze,” which may deter investors from engaging in short
selling more generally. 2011 MFA Letter, supra note 49.
17
data by the Commission following receipt of the monthly Proposed Form SHO reports would be used to
aggregate the data received from the reporting Managers. At this time, the Commission does not intend
to verify the accuracy of the data reported by Managers, but may consider doing so in the future after
assessing whether such verification would be useful or necessary to enhance the integrity of the data.
51
The additional delay prior to publication of the aggregated data would also help to reduce the risk of
imitative trading activity by market participants and help to protect reporting Managers’ proprietary
trading strategies.52
As discussed throughout this release, the Commission believes that, by limiting the reporting
requirements to positions exceeding a reporting threshold and by publishing data on an aggregated and
delayed basis, the structure of Proposed Rule 13f-2 and the information required to be reported on
Proposed Form SHO would likely mitigate many potential negative effects on the market.
III. Proposed Rule 13f-2 and Proposed Form SHO
A. Proposed Form SHO Filing Requirement Through EDGAR
Proposed Rule 13f-2 is designed to provide greater transparency through the publication of
certain short sale related data to investors and other market participants by requiring a Manager to file a
report in a structured data language in two information tables on Proposed Form SHO, in accordance with
the form’s instructions (attached below). Managers would file Proposed Form SHO with the Commission
via the Commission’s Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis, and Retrieval system (“EDGAR”) in an
eXtensible Markup Language (“XML”) specific to Proposed Form SHO (“custom XML,” here “Proposed
Form SHO-specific XML”). Managers would have two ways to file Proposed Form SHO or any
amended Proposed Form SHO with the Commission. A Manager could use a fillable web form the
Commission would provide on EDGAR to input Proposed Form SHO disclosures, which EDGAR would
convert to Proposed Form SHO-specific XML, or, alternatively, a Manager could use its own software
tool to file Proposed Form SHO to EDGAR directly in Proposed Form SHO-specific XML.
 51 See infra Part III.B.4 for a discussion of how technical errors are to be addressed in filing Proposed Form
SHO with the Commission.
52 See generally infra Parts VIII.C.5 and VIII.F (discussing “copycat trading”).
18
A Manager would be required to file Proposed Form SHO with the Commission within 14
calendar days after the end of each calendar month with regard to each equity security over which the
Manager and all accounts over which the Manager (or any person under the Manager’s control) has
investment discretion53 collectively meet or exceed a quantitative reporting threshold. Specifically, a
Manager must file a Proposed Form SHO report:
• with regard to any equity security of an issuer that is registered pursuant to section 12 of the
Exchange Act54 or for which the issuer is required to file reports pursuant to section 15(d) of the
Exchange Act55 (a “reporting company issuer”) in which the Manager meets or exceeds either
(1) a gross short position in the equity security with a US dollar value of $10 million or more at
the close of regular trading hours56 on any settlement date during the calendar month, or (2) a
monthly average gross short position57 as a percentage of shares outstanding in the equity security
of 2.5% or more (“Threshold A”); and
• with regard to any equity security of an issuer that is not a reporting company issuer as described
above (a “non-reporting company issuer”) in which the Manager meets or exceeds a gross short
position in the equity security with a US dollar value of $500,000 or more at the close of regular
trading hours on any settlement date during the calendar month (“Threshold B”).
Threshold A and Threshold B are discussed further in Part III.D below and are referred to herein
collectively as the “Reporting Thresholds” (each a “Reporting Threshold”). For each equity security for
which a Manager meets or exceeds a Reporting Threshold, such Manager, identifying itself using its
name and active Legal Entity Identifier (“LEI”), if available,
58 would be required to report information
 53 For purposes of Proposed Rule 13f-2, the term “investment discretion” has the same meaning as in Rule
13f-1(b) under the Exchange Act. 17 CFR 240.13f-1(b). Proposed Rule 13f-2(b)(2).
54 15 U.S.C. 78l.
55 15 U.S.C. 78o(d).
56 For purposes of Proposed Rule 13f-2 and Proposed Form SHO, the term “regular trading hours” would
have the same meaning as in Rule 600(b)(77) under the Exchange Act. See, e.g., Proposed Rule 13f-2(b)(5).
57 For purposes of Proposed Rule 13f-2, the term “gross short position” means the number of shares of the
reportable equity security that are held short, without inclusion of any offsetting economic positions (including
shares of the reportable equity security or derivatives of such security). Proposed Rule 13f-2(b)(4).
58 LEI is a unique global identifier for legal entities participating in financial transactions that is currently
used in regulatory reporting to financial regulators, including the Commission.
19
that is aggregated across accounts over which the Manager, or any person under the Manager’s control,
has investment discretion. If a Manager does not have an active LEI, such Manager would file Proposed
Form SHO using only its name as registered with the Commission to identify itself.
Managers that meet a Reporting Threshold would be required to file Proposed Form SHO with
the Commission via EDGAR within 14 calendar days after the end of the calendar month. Section
13(f)(2) requires that public disclosure of certain short sale information at a minimum shall occur every
month. The Commission believes that 14 calendar days after the end of each month provides sufficient
time for Managers that meet a Reporting Threshold to assemble, review, and file the required information
on Proposed Form SHO. Further, the Commission believes that providing Managers with a reasonable
period of time to file complete and accurate short sale related information in the first instance would
reduce the need for Managers to file amendments to Proposed Form SHO, as discussed below.
Consistent with Regulation SHO, Proposed Rule 13f-2 would apply to equity securities.
59 As
such, the Commission believes that the short sale related data that would be published by the Commission
under Proposed Rule 13f-2 would provide additional context to market participants regarding equity
securities that are subject to the requirements of Regulation SHO.
For purposes of Proposed Rule 13f-2, the term “investment discretion” has the same meaning as
in Rule 13f-1(b) under the Exchange Act.60 Rule 13f-1(b)’s definition is comprehensive in that it covers
all accounts over which the Manager, or any person under the Manager’s control, has investment
discretion. This same definition of investment discretion was used by the Commission in adopting
interim temporary Rule 10a-3T in 2008, which required certain Managers to file weekly nonpublic reports
with the Commission on Form SH regarding short sales and positions,
61 and is currently used for Form
13F “long” position reporting by certain Managers. Because Proposed Rule 13f-2 is designed to provide
greater transparency to investors and other market participants through the publication of certain short

59 Regulation SHO applies to equity securities, both exchange-listed and over-the-counter, as defined in
Section 3(a)(11) of the Exchange Act and Rule 3a11-1 thereunder. See Regulation SHO Adopting Release, supra
note 4.
60 17 CFR 240.13f-1(b). Rule 13f-1 is entitled “Reporting by institutional investment managers of
information with respect to accounts over which they exercise investment discretion.”
61 See supra Part II.C.
20
sale related data, the Commission believes that using the same comprehensive definition of investment
discretion for Manager reporting under Proposed Rule 13f-2 is likewise appropriate. In addition,
Managers that would be filing reports on Proposed Form SHO are likely experienced with reporting on
Form 13F using this same definition. As discussed above, Proposed Rule 13f-2 is designed to address the
requirements of Section 13(f)(2) by offering increased transparency into the activities of certain Managers
with large short positions. As such, information reported by a Manager should include all accounts over
which such Manager has investment discretion.
Proposed Rule 13f-2 would require that a Manager calculate its “gross short position” in an
equity security in determining whether it meets a Reporting Threshold. Under Proposed Rule 13f-2,
“gross short position” would mean the number of shares of the equity security that are held short, without
inclusion of any offsetting economic positions, including shares of the equity security or derivatives of
such equity security. The Manager shall report its gross short position in an equity security without
offsetting such gross short position with “long” shares of the equity security or economically equivalent
long positions obtained through derivatives of the equity security. A Manager’s gross short position in a
security is distinct from its net short position in such security, and the Commission believes that gross
short position information provides a more complete view of a Manager’s short exposure, especially if
coupled with the hedging information that the Commission is proposing Managers report on Proposed
Form SHO, as discussed below. Requiring reporting of gross short positions would also likely result in
more consistent reporting among Managers. Specifically, the Commission is concerned that using net
short positions could result in Managers using varying approaches in determining what “long” positions,
including equivalent “long” positions through derivatives, are appropriate to offset against their gross
short position in determining whether the Manager meets a Reporting Threshold in the first instance.
Consequently, the Commission believes that using a net short position could result in different reporting
results for otherwise similarly situated Managers in terms of a gross short position in the equity security.
The Commission is proposing required Manager disclosures that are significantly different from
currently available data and that would be useful to both market participants and regulators, with a focus
on addressing data limitations exposed by the market volatility in January 2021.
21
B. Proposed Form SHO
1. Filing Proposed Form SHO Reports
Proposed Form SHO is entitled “Information required of institutional investment managers
pursuant to Section 13(f)(2) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and rules thereunder.” Managers
would use Proposed Form SHO for reports to the Commission required by Proposed Rule 13f-2. A
Manager would file a report on Proposed Form SHO with the Commission within 14 calendar days after
the end of each calendar month with regard to each equity security in which the Manager meets or
exceeds a Reporting Threshold.
Pursuant to Proposed Rule 13f-2 and Proposed Form SHO, to determine whether the dollar value
threshold described in the first prong of Threshold A—a gross short position in an equity security of a
reporting company issuer (as described above) with a US dollar value of $10 million or more at the close
of regular trading hours on any settlement date during the calendar month—is met, a Manager shall
determine its end of day gross short position in the equity security on each settlement date during the
calendar month and multiply that figure by the closing price at the close of regular trading hours on the
settlement date.
To determine whether the second prong of Threshold A—2.5% or higher monthly average gross
short position as a percentage of shares outstanding in the equity security—is met, the Manager shall
(a) identify its gross short position (as defined in Proposed Rule 13f-2) in the equity security at the close
of each settlement date during the calendar month of the reporting period, and divide that figure by the
number of shares outstanding in such security at the close of that settlement date, then (b) add together the
daily percentages during the calendar month as determined in (a) and divide the resulting total by the
number of settlement dates during the calendar month of the reporting period. The number of shares
outstanding of the security for which information is being reported shall be determined by reference to an
issuer’s most recent annual or quarterly report, and any subsequent update thereto, filed with the
Commission.
To determine whether the dollar value threshold described in Threshold B—a gross short position
in an equity security of a non-reporting company issuer (as described above) with a US dollar value of
22
$500,000 or more at the close of regular trading hours on any settlement date during the calendar
month—is met, a Manager shall determine its end of day gross short position in the equity security on
each settlement date during the calendar month and multiply that figure by the closing price at the close of
regular trading hours on the settlement date. In circumstances where such closing price is not available,
the Manager would be required to use the price at which it last purchased or sold any share of that
security in determining whether Threshold B is met.
The rules to prevent duplicative reporting of Proposed Form SHO are modeled after those in
Form 13F.62 More specifically, if two or more Managers, each of which is required by Proposed Rule
13f-2 to file Proposed Form SHO for the reporting period, exercise investment discretion with respect to
the same securities, only one such Manager must report the information in its report on Proposed Form
SHO. If a Manager has information that is required to be reported on Proposed Form SHO and such
information is reported by another Manager (or Managers), such Manager must identify the Manager(s)
reporting on its behalf in the manner described in Special Instruction 5 to the Proposed Form SHO
instructions. Such information would be reported by Managers on the “Cover Page,” as discussed further
below. Duplicative reporting could result in unnecessary costs to Managers, and could make the
aggregated data published by the Commission less accurate.
The Commission believes that requiring Proposed Form SHO to be reported via EDGAR would
enhance the accessibility, usability, and quality of the Proposed Form SHO disclosures for the
Commission. Proposed Rule 13f-2 and Proposed Form SHO would improve the quality and scope of the
information regularly available for the Commission’s use in examining market behavior and recreating
significant market events. In addition, Proposed Rule 13f-2 and Proposed Form SHO would expand the
scope of information available to market participants and could thereby assist in their understanding of
the level of negative sentiment and the actions of short sellers collectively. While the primary focus of
Proposed Rule 13f-2 and Proposed Form SHO is transparency, the Commission’s regular access to the
data reported on Proposed Form SHO would also bolster its oversight of short selling. The Commission’s
 62 See “Rules to Prevent Duplicative Reporting” in the “General Instructions” of Form 13F, available at
https://www.sec.gov/pdf/form13f.pdf.
23
ability to more accurately and timely reconstruct and respond to market events could enhance investor
protections, particularly in times of increased market volatility.
63
Reporting via EDGAR would allow the Commission to download the Proposed Form SHO
disclosures directly, facilitating efficient access, organization, and evaluation of the reported information,
thereby allowing the Commission to more effectively examine market behavior, recreate significant
market events, and further bolster its oversight of short selling activity.
The Commission believes that requiring Proposed Form SHO to be filed in Proposed Form
SHO-specific XML, a structured machine-readable data language, would facilitate more thorough review
and analysis of the reported short sale disclosures by the Commission, increasing the efficiency and
effectiveness of the Commission’s understanding of short selling and systemic risk. Additionally, most
Managers have experience filing EDGAR forms that use similar EDGAR Form-specific XML-based data
languages, such as Form 13F.64
2. Confidential Treatment
The instructions to Proposed Form SHO expressly provide that all information that would reveal
the identity of a Manager filing a Proposed Form SHO report with the Commission is deemed subject to a
confidential treatment request under Rule 24b-2 (17 CFR 240.24b-2). The Commission currently plans to
publish only aggregated data derived from information provided in Proposed Form SHO reports.
Accordingly, Proposed Form SHO, by its terms, ensures that information reported on the form that could
reveal the identity of the reporting Manager will be deemed subject to a confidential treatment request.
Pursuant to Section 13(f) of the Exchange Act, the Commission may prevent or delay public disclosure of
all other information reported on Proposed Form SHO in accordance with FOIA, Section 13(f)(4)-(5),
Rule 24b-2(b) under the Exchange Act, and any other applicable law.
65 The Commission believes that,
because the Commission currently plans to publish only aggregated data derived from information
 63 See infra Part VIII.D.1.
64 See Form 13F, available at https://www.sec.gov/pdf/form13f.pdf.
65 Any requests for confidential treatment of the information reported on Proposed Form SHO should be
made in accordance with Rule 24b-2 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.24b-2), should be filed electronically in
accordance with proposed Rule 24b-2(i) and Rule 101(d) of Regulation S-T (17 CFR 232.101(d)), and should
provide enough factual support in the request to enable the Commission to make an informed judgment as to the
merits of the request.
24
reported on Proposed Form SHO, it would be unlikely to grant requests for confidential treatment of the
information from which the aggregated data is derived. While it is possible a person may be able to
reverse engineer data in a situation where only one person was selling short, especially where the short
seller has publicly disclosed that they have a short position in a specific security, the Commission
anticipates that many potential negative effects on the market or that short seller would likely be mitigated
by the delay in publication of the aggregated data. Further, the Commission believes that granting a
request from a Manager that the data it provides on a Proposed Form SHO report be excluded from the
aggregated data published by the Commission could affect the integrity of the data by limiting or possibly
excluding relevant information. This likely would limit the usefulness of the information to the
public. For these reasons, the Commission believes that, on balance, the public’s need for the aggregated
data the Commission would publish likely would justify any potential harm that disclosing such
aggregated disclosure would impose on the Manager requesting confidential treatment.
3. Proposed Form SHO Contents
Proposed Form SHO consists of two parts: (1) the Cover Page, and (2) the Information Tables.
On the Cover Page—
• The Manager shall report certain basic information, including its name, mailing address,
business telephone and facsimile numbers, as well as the name, title, business telephone
and facsimile numbers of the Manager’s contact employee for the Proposed Form SHO
report; and the date the report is filed. The Manager will also provide its active LEI, if it
has one. The Commission believes that this basic information should be included to
identify the reporting Manager and the calendar month for which the Manager is
reporting.
• The Manager shall identify the calendar month (using the last settlement date of the
calendar month) for which the Manager is reporting. The date should name the month,
and express the day and year in Arabic numerals, with the year being a four-digit numeral
(e.g., 2022).
25
• The Manager filing the report will include the representation that “all information
contained herein is true, correct and complete, and that it is understood that all required
items, statements, schedules, lists, and tables, are considered integral parts of this form.”
• The reporting Manager shall designate the report type for the Proposed Form SHO by
checking the appropriate box in the “Report Type” section of the Cover Page, and
include, where applicable, the name and active LEI of each other Manager reporting for
this Manager. If the other Manager’s active LEI is not available to the reporting
Manager, the reporting Manager shall include only the name of the other Manager as
registered with the Commission. This information will provide the Commission with a
summary of the nature and scope of the information that the Manager is reporting for the
calendar month, as well as identify other reporting Managers, if applicable.
o If all of the information that a Manager is required by Proposed Rule 13f-2 to
report on Proposed Form SHO is reported by another Manager (or Managers),
the Manager shall check the box for Report Type “FORM SHO NOTICE,”
include on the Cover Page the name and active LEI (if available) of each of the
Other Managers Reporting for this Manager and omit the Information Tables.
o If all of the information that a Manager is required by Proposed Rule 13f-2 to
report on Proposed Form SHO is reported in the report filed by the Manager, the
Manager shall check the box for Report Type “FORM SHO ENTRIES
REPORT,” omit from the Cover Page the name and active LEI of each other
Manager reporting for this Manager, and include the Information Tables.
o If only a part of the information that a Manager is required by Proposed Rule
13f-2 to report on Proposed Form SHO is reported in the report filed by the
Manager, the Manager shall check the box for Report Type “FORM SHO
COMBINATION REPORT,” include on the Cover Page the name and active LEI
of each of the Other Managers reporting for this Manager, if available, and
include the Information Tables.
26
• If the Manager is filing the Proposed Form SHO report as an amendment, then the
Manager must check the “Amendment and Restatement” box on the Cover Page, and
enter the Amendment and Restatement number.
66 Each amendment must include a
complete Cover Page and Information Tables. Amendments must be filed sequentially.
This information will provide the Commission with a summary of the nature and scope of
the information that a Manager is reporting for the calendar month.
In reporting information required on Information Tables 1 and 2, as discussed below, a Manager
also must account for and report a gross short position in an ETF, and activity that results in the
acquisition or sale of shares of the ETF resulting from call options exercises or assignments; put options
exercises or assignments; tendered conversions; secondary offering transactions; or other activity, as
discussed further below. However, for purposes of Proposed Form SHO reporting, a Manager, in
determining its gross short position in an equity security, would not be required to consider short
positions that the ETF holds in individual underlying equity securities that are part of the ETF basket.
Not requiring the Manager to consider these short positions in the underlying equity securities should
limit the burden to reporting Managers in determining whether such Manager meets a Reporting
Threshold in such underlying equity securities, while not materially affecting the reported gross short
position and short activity data.
Information Table 1: “Manager’s Gross Short Position Information”—The information being
reported will include gross short position information regarding transactions that have settled during the
calendar month being reported.
• In Column 1, a Manager shall enter the last day of the calendar month being reported by the
Manager on which a trade settles (“settlement date”). This information will identify the month
being reported by the Manager.
• In Column 2, a Manager shall enter the name of the issuer to identify the issuer of the equity
security for which information is being reported.

66 See infra Part III.B.4.
27
• In Column 3, a Manager shall enter the issuer’s active LEI, if the issuer has an active LEI. The
LEI provides standardized information that will enable the Commission and market participants
to more precisely identify the issuer of each equity security for which information is being
reported.
• In Column 4, consistent with Section 13(f)(2), a Manager shall enter the title of the class of the
equity security for which information is being reported.
• In Column 5, consistent with Section 13(f)(2), a Manager shall enter the nine (9) digit CUSIP
number of the equity security for which information is being reported, if applicable.
• In Column 6, a Manager shall enter the twelve (12) character, alphanumeric Financial Instrument
Global Identifier (“FIGI”)67 of the equity security for which information is being reported, if a
FIGI has been assigned. Like CUSIP, FIGI provides a methodology for identifying securities.
• In Column 7, a Manager shall enter the number of shares that represent the Manager’s gross short
position in the equity security for which information is being reported at the close of regular
trading hours on the last settlement date of the calendar month of the reporting period. The term
“gross short position” means the number of shares of the security for which information is being
reported that are held short, without inclusion of any offsetting economic positions (including
shares of the equity security for which information is being reported or derivatives of such
security).
• In Column 8, a Manager shall enter the US dollar value of the shares reported in Column 7,
rounded to the nearest dollar. A Manager shall report the corresponding dollar value of the
reported gross short position by multiplying the number of shares of the security for which
information is being reported by the closing price at the close of regular trading hours on the last
settlement date of the calendar month. In circumstances where such closing price is not available,
the Manager shall use the price at which it last purchased or sold any share of that security. This
 67 FIGI is a randomly assigned 12 character, alphanumeric ID that provides a standardized unique
unambiguous identification framework for financial instruments across all asset classes and jurisdictions. It is open
sourced, freely available, and non-proprietary.
28
additional information regarding the dollar value of the reported short position will provide
additional transparency and context to market participants and regulators.
• In Column 9, a Manager shall indicate whether the identified gross short position in Column 7 is
fully hedged (“F”), partially hedged (“P”), or not hedged (“0”) at the close of the last settlement
date of the calendar month of the reporting period. A Manager shall indicate that a reported gross
short position in an equity security is “fully hedged” if the Manager also holds an offsetting
position that reduces the risk of price fluctuations for its entire position in that equity security, for
example, through “delta” hedging68 (in which the Manager’s reported gross short position is
offset 1-for-1), or similar hedging strategies used by market participants. A Manager shall report
that it is “partially hedged” if the Manager holds an offsetting position that is less than the
identified price risk associated with the reported gross short position in that equity security. This
additional hedging information would help to indicate whether the reported gross short position is
directional or non-directional in nature. More specifically, a short position that is not hedged
could be an indicator that the short seller has a negative view of the security, believes that the
price of the equity security will decrease, and accepts the market risk related to its short position.
A short position that is fully hedged could be an indicator that the short seller has a neutral or
positive view of the security, and is engaged in hedging activity to protect against potential
market risk. A short position that is partially hedged could be an indicator that the short seller has
a negative, neutral, or positive view of the security. Whether the hedge itself is full, partial, or
non-existent might provide further context to market participants regarding the short sellers’ view
of the equity security. The Commission believes that hedging information also can assist with
distinguishing position trading, which typically has corresponding hedging activity, from other
strategies such as arbitrage.
Information Table 2: “Daily Activity Affecting Manager’s Gross Short Position During the
Reporting Period”—The Manager shall report the information required by the Proposed Form SHO

68 See Brandon Renfro, What is Delta Hedging?, The Balance (Nov. 4, 2021), available at
https://www.thebalance.com/what-is-delta-hedging-5207735.
29
instructions for each date during the reporting period on which a trade settles (settlement date) during the
calendar month. The Commission believes that such daily activity information would provide market
participants and regulators with additional context and transparency into whether, how, and when
reported gross short positions in the reported equity security are being closed out (or alternatively,
increased) as a result of the acquisition or sale of shares of the equity security resulting from call options
exercises or assignments; put options exercises or assignments; tendered conversions; secondary offering
transactions; and other activity. The Commission believes that such activity data would also assist the
Commission in assessing systemic risk and in reconstructing unusual market events, including instances
of extreme volatility.
• In Column 1, a Manager shall enter the date during the reporting period on which a trade settles
for the activity reported. This will identify the settlement date activity being reported.
• In Column 2, a Manager shall enter the name of the issuer, consistent with Section 13(f)(2), to
identify the issuer of the security for which information is being reported.
• In Column 3, a Manager shall enter the issuer’s active LEI, if the issuer has an active LEI. The
LEI provides standardized information that will enable the Commission and market participants
to more precisely identify the issuer of each equity security for which information is being
reported.
• In Column 4, consistent with Section 13(f)(2), a Manager shall enter the title of the class of the
security for which information is being reported.
• In Column 5, consistent with Section 13(f)(2), a Manager shall enter the nine (9) digit CUSIP
number of the equity security for which information is being reported, if applicable.
• In Column 6, a Manager shall enter the twelve (12) character, alphanumeric FIGI of the equity
security for which information is being reported, if a FIGI has been assigned. Like CUSIP, FIGI
provides a methodology for identifying securities.
• In Column 7, for the settlement date set forth in Column 1, a Manager shall enter the number of
shares of the equity security for which information is being reported that resulted from short sales
and settled on that date.
30
• In Column 8, for the settlement date set forth in Column 1, a Manager shall enter the number of
shares of the security for which information is being reported that were purchased to cover, in
whole or in part, an existing short position in that security and settled on that date. This activity
information will allow the Commission and other regulators to more quickly identify a potential
“short squeeze,” which can be evidenced by short sellers closing out short positions by
purchasing shares in the open market. If it appears that a short squeeze may have occurred
through potential manipulative behavior involving short selling, the Commission could perform
further analysis regarding the squeeze. Increased risk of detection may deter some market
participants seeking to orchestrate a short squeeze.69
• In Column 9, for the settlement date set forth in Column 1, a Manager shall enter the number of
shares of the security for which information is being reported that are acquired in a call option
exercise that reduces or closes a short position on that security and settled on that date. The
exercise or assignment of an option position can reduce or close a short position in the underlying
equity security.
• In Column 10, for the settlement date set forth in Column 1, a Manager shall enter the number of
shares of the security for which information is being reported that are sold in a put option exercise
that creates or increases a short position on that security and settled on that date. Options can be
used to create economic short exposure such that an exercise or assignment of an option could
create or increase a short position in the underlying equity security.
• In Column 11, for the settlement date set forth in Column 1, a Manager shall enter the number of
shares of the security for which information is being reported that are sold in a call option
assignment that creates or increases a short position on that security and settled on that date.
Options can be used to create economic short exposure such that an exercise or assignment of an
option could create or increase a short position in the underlying equity security.
• In Column 12, for the settlement date set forth in Column 1, a Manager shall enter the number of
shares of the security for which information is being reported that are acquired in a put option
 69 See infra Part VIII.D.1.
31
assignment that reduces or closes a short position on that security and settled on that date. The
exercise or assignment of an option position can reduce or close a short position in the underlying
equity security.
• In Column 13, for the settlement date set forth in Column 1, a Manager shall enter the number of
shares of the security for which information is being reported that are acquired as a result of
tendered conversions that reduce or close a short position on that security and settled on that date.
Holders of convertible debt often hold short positions to hedge their convertible position. When
the shares of the convertible debt are converted, they can reduce or close a short position in the
equity security.
• In Column 14, for the settlement date set forth in Column 1, a Manager shall enter the number of
shares of the security for which information is being reported that were obtained through a
secondary offering transaction that reduces or closes a short position on that security and settled
on that date.70 A secondary offering transaction, sometimes referred to as a “seasoned” offering,
occurs when a company sells newly created shares to the market, at a time subsequent to the
company’s initial public offering, or “IPO.” Purchasing securities in a secondary offering can
reduce or close a short position in the equity security.
• In Column 15, for the settlement date set forth in Column 1, a Manager shall enter the number of
shares of the security for which information is being reported that resulted from other activity not
previously reported in Information Table 2 that creates or increases a short position on that
security and settled on that date. Other activity to be reported includes, but is not limited to,
shares resulting from ETF creation or redemption activity.
• In Column 16, for the settlement date set forth in Column 1, a Manager shall enter the number of
shares of the security for which information is being reported that resulted from other activity not
previously reported on Information Table 2 that reduces or closes a short position on that security

70 Regulation M Rule 105 makes it unlawful, in connection with an offering of certain equity securities, for
any person to sell short a security that is the subject of an offering and purchase the offered securities from an
underwriter or broker or dealer participating in the offering if such short sale was effected during the Rule 105
restricted period. See 17 CFR 242.105(a).
32
and settled on that date. Other activity to be reported includes, but is not limited to, shares
resulting from ETF creation or redemption activity.
The Commission believes that the information in Columns 9, 12, 13, 14, and 16 is useful in
providing the Commission additional context and transparency into how and when short positions in the
reported equity security are being closed out or reduced.
The Commission believes that the information in Columns 10, 11, and 15 is useful in providing
the Commission additional context and transparency into how and when short positions in the reported
equity security are being created or increased.
4. Procedures for Filing and Amending Proposed Form SHO
Managers will have two ways to file Proposed Form SHO or any amended Proposed Form SHO
to the Commission. A Manager can use a fillable web form provided by EDGAR to input Proposed Form
SHO disclosures that EDGAR will convert to Proposed Form SHO-specific XML or, alternatively, use its
own software tool to file Proposed Form SHO to EDGAR directly in Proposed Form SHO-specific
XML.
71 If a Manager uses the web-fillable Proposed Form SHO on EDGAR and encounters a technical
error when filling out the form, such Manager will be required to correct the identified technical error
before being permitted to file the Proposed Form SHO through EDGAR. If a Manager uses its own
software tool to file a Proposed Form SHO filing to EDGAR directly in Proposed Form SHO-specific
XML, and a technical error is identified by EDGAR after the filing is sent, such Manager will receive an
error message that the filing has been suspended, and will be required to correct the identified technical
error and re-file the Proposed Form SHO through EDGAR.72
 71 The filing options described for Proposed Form SHO are consistent with other EDGAR filings that are filed
in Form-specific XML-based languages. See, e.g., Regulation of NMS Stock Alternative Trading Systems, Exchange
Act Release No. 83663, (July 18, 2018), 83 FR 38768 (Dec. 9, 2021) (requiring new EDGAR Form ATS-N to be
filed in an XML-based language specific to that Form).
72 The Commission’s XML schema (i.e., the set of technical rules associated with Proposed Form SHOspecific XML) for Proposed Form SHO would incorporate validations of each data field on Proposed Form SHO to
help ensure consistent formatting and completeness. For example, letters instead of numbers in a field requiring
only numbers, would be flagged by EDGAR as a “technical” error that would require correction by the reporting
Manager in order to complete its Proposed Form SHO filing. Field validations act as an automated form
completeness check when a Manager files Proposed Form SHO through EDGAR; they do not verify the accuracy of
the information submitted in Proposed Form SHO filings.
33
A Manager that determines or is made aware that it has filed a Proposed Form SHO with errors
that affect the accuracy of the information reported must file an amended Proposed Form SHO within ten
(10) calendar days of discovery of the error. Filing an amended Proposed Form SHO within 10 calendar
days of discovery of the error would provide Managers with a reasonable period of time to prepare the
Proposed Form SHO amendment, while helping to ensure that accurate information is received by the
Commission in a timely manner.
To facilitate the Commission’s process of aggregating the short sale related information reported
on Proposed Form SHO for publication, amendments to Proposed Form SHO must restate the Proposed
Form SHO in its entirety. To inform the Commission that the filing is an amendment of a previously
filed Proposed Form SHO, a Manager must check the box on the Proposed Form SHO Cover Page to
indicate that the filing is an “Amendment and Restatement.” On the Cover Page of each Amendment and
Restatement filed, a Manager must provide a written description of the revision being made, explain the
reason for the revision, and indicate whether data from any additional Proposed Form SHO reporting
period(s) (up to the past 12 calendar months) is/are affected by the amendment. If other reporting periods
have been affected, a Manager shall complete and file a separate Amendment and Restatement for each
previous calendar month so affected, and provide a description of the revision being made and explain the
reason for the revision. As discussed below, the Commission proposes to provide aggregated data on a
rolling twelve-month basis, with prior months’ data updated as necessary to reflect data from
Amendments and Restatements. The Commission proposes to limit the requirement to file amended
Proposed Forms SHO to twelve months to reduce the burden and cost on Managers.
If a revision reported in an Amendment and Restatement changes a data point reported in the
Proposed Form SHO that is being amended by twenty-five percent (25%) or more, the Manager must
notify the Commission staff via the Office of Interpretation and Guidance of the Division of Trading and
Markets (“TM OIG”) at TradingAndMarkets@sec.gov within two (2) business days after filing the
Amendment and Restatement. The Commission believes that a change of 25% or greater reflects a
significant change, particularly for securities with few Managers reporting Proposed Form SHO data,
which, as discussed below, should be highlighted in the updated aggregated data that will be published.
34
Regardless of the scope of the revision being reported, if the data being reported in an
Amendment and Restatement affects the data reported on the Proposed Form SHO reports filed for
multiple Proposed Form SHO reporting periods, the Manager, within two (2) business days after filing the
Amendment and Restatement, must provide the Commission staff via TM OIG with notice of such
occurrence, and provide an explanation of the reason for the revision. Reporting discrepancies could
harm the integrity of the data being reported on Proposed Form SHO through EDGAR (and published by
the Commission on an aggregated basis as discussed herein), particularly if such reporting discrepancies
go uncorrected. The Commission believes that requiring a Manager to notify Commission staff when
reporting discrepancies have occurred, with a description of the revision being made and the reason for
the revision, would help Commission staff determine whether there may be an ongoing or continuing
issue with the integrity of the data being reported by that Manager.
Each reporting period, the Commission plans to update prior months’ aggregated Proposed Form
SHO data on EDGAR to reflect information reported in Amendments and Restatements and will add an
asterisk (i.e., *) or other mark for any updated data for which a Manager notified Commission staff that it
filed an Amendment and Restatement to correct a data point of 25% or greater to highlight for market
participants that the published aggregated data includes significantly revised data. The Commission will
publish the aggregated Proposed Form SHO data for the latest reporting period along with aggregated
Proposed Form SHO data for the prior twelve months on a rolling basis. The published aggregated
Proposed Form SHO data will include a disclaimer that the Commission does not ensure the accuracy of
the data being published.
C. Publication of Information by the Commission
The Commission will publish through EDGAR aggregated information regarding each equity
security reported by all Managers. The Commission estimates that it will publish such aggregated
information within one month after the end of the reporting calendar month.
73 The Commission will use
the time following receipt of the monthly forms to aggregate the data received from the reporting
 73 The Commission notes that publication of the aggregated information may be delayed for an initial period
following effectiveness of Proposed Rule 13f-2 and Proposed Form SHO.
35
Managers. The Commission does not plan to verify the accuracy of data elements reported by Managers,
but may consider doing so in the future after assessing whether such verification would be beneficial.
This delay prior to publication will also help protect reporting Managers’ proprietary trading strategies,
thereby reducing the risk of imitative trading activity by the market.74
Analysis of data filed under temporary Rule 10a-3T showed the mean duration that short
positions were held after the end of the month ranged from nine (9) to thirteen (13) calendar days,
increasing with higher threshold levels, and the median position was not held into the following month.75
At a Reporting Threshold of $10 million or 2.5% of shares outstanding, positions were held for a mean of
9.85 calendar days and a median of 0 calendar days. Therefore, the Commission believes Managers
would close the majority of short positions prior to publication. Under Proposed Rule 13f-2, the
requirement to file Proposed Form SHO within 14 calendar days after the end of each calendar month
applies to Managers who meet or exceed either Reporting Threshold.
With regard to each individual equity security reported by Managers on Proposed Form SHO’s
Information Tables 1 and 2 (discussed above), the Commission will publish the issuer’s name, and active
LEI (if the issuer has an active LEI). The Commission will also publish the equity security’s title of class,
CUSIP, and FIGI (if a FIGI has been assigned). These data points will identify the equity security for
which information is being reported.
With regard to Proposed Form SHO’s Information Table 1, entitled “Manager’s Gross Short
Position Information” (discussed above), the Commission will publish, as an aggregated number of shares
across all reporting Managers, the number of shares of the reported equity security that represent the
Managers’ gross short position at the close of the last settlement date of the calendar month, as well as the
corresponding US dollar value of this reported gross short position. The Commission will also publish a
summary of the Managers’ reported hedging information with regard to the reported equity security.
Specifically, the Commission will identify the percentage of the aggregate gross short position for a
reported equity security that is reported as being fully hedged, partially hedged, or not hedged.
 74 See generally infra Parts VIII.C.5 and VIII.F (discussing “copycat trading”).
75 See infra Parts III.D.2 and VIII.C.3.v for additional discussion of analysis of temporary Rule 10a-3T data.
36
With regard to Proposed Form SHO’s Information Table 2, entitled “Daily Activity Affecting
Manager’s Gross Short Position during the Reporting Period” (discussed above), for each reported equity
security, for each individual settlement date during the calendar month, the Commission will publish the
“net” activity in the reported equity security, as aggregated across all reporting Managers. The net
activity will be expressed by a single identified number of shares of the reported equity security, and will
be determined by offsetting the purchase and sale activity that is reported by Managers in Columns 7
through 16 of Information Table 2. A positive number of shares identified would indicate net purchase
activity in the equity security on the specified settlement date, while a negative number of shares
identified would indicate net sale activity.
The aggregated information published would provide market participants with additional
information beyond what is currently publicly available, specifically information regarding the scope of
activity during the calendar month by reporting Managers as a group. Furthermore, by providing the
aggregated security-level information through EDGAR in a structured, machine-readable data language,
the Commission would allow investors and other public data users to download the aggregated
information directly. In each case, the data could then be analyzed using various tools and applications,
thus potentially removing the need to pay a third-party vendor to search for, extract, and structure the
published information.
D. Reporting Thresholds
1. Threshold Structure
Setting a reporting threshold level involves a tradeoff between the interests of gathering and
disclosing data, such as short sale related data, and potential costs to reporting Managers.76 A reporting
threshold that is set too low could impose substantial compliance costs on Managers that tend to have
small short positions or are low volume short sellers, and may only provide incrementally meaningful
short sale related data. A reporting threshold that is set too high might limit the amount of data provided
 76 These costs to reporting Managers include, for example, compliance costs of reporting; costs associated
with retaliation to short sellers, including an increased risk of short squeezes; and market participants reducing their
short positions to avoid disclosure, which can have negative impacts on price discovery and market efficiency.
37
to regulators and industry participants, and incentivize Managers to develop trading strategies designed to
avoid having to report their short sale related data altogether.
77
The Reporting Thresholds are designed to require the filing of Proposed Form SHO by Managers
with substantial gross short positions. The Reporting Thresholds are structured to make it more difficult
for Managers with substantial gross short positions to avoid disclosure by trading below a Reporting
Threshold, particularly with lower market capitalization securities. The Reporting Thresholds are based
on a Manager’s gross short position in the equity security itself, and do not include the calculation of
derivative positions or long positions in the equity security. While the proposed rule does not include
derivatives as part of the threshold calculation, the Commission is proposing to require Managers to
report certain changes in their gross equity short positions derived from acquiring or selling the equity in
connection with derivative activity, such as exercising an option. The Commission believes this proposed
approach balances Managers’ reporting costs with the utility such data provides to regulators.
Threshold A. The Commission is proposing a two-pronged reporting threshold structure with
regard to any equity security of an issuer that is registered pursuant to section 12 of the Exchange Act or
for which the issuer is required to file reports pursuant to section 15(d) of the Exchange Act (a reporting
company issuer). Specifically, Threshold A, identified in Proposed Rule 13f-2(a), is focused on
Managers that, with regard to each equity security of a reporting company issuer in which the Manager
and all accounts over which the Manager or any person under the Manager’s control has investment
discretion, collectively have either (1) a gross short position in the equity security with a US dollar value
of $10 million or more at the close of regular trading hours on any settlement date during the calendar
month, or (2) a 2.5% or higher monthly average gross short position as a percentage of shares outstanding
in the equity security.

77 With regard to reporting thresholds, research has shown that some short sellers in Europe, for example,
avoid crossing the stated percentage reporting threshold of 0.5% of shares outstanding by keeping their short
positions just under such reporting threshold. See EUR. SEC. AND MKTS. AUTH., ESMA REPORT ON TRENDS, RISKS
AND VULNERABILITIES NO. 1, 62-63 (2018),
available at https://www.esma.europa.eu/sites/default/files/library/esma50-165-
538_report_on_trends_risks_and_vulnerabilities_no.1_2018.pdf.
38
This two-pronged approach measures the size of the short position in question relative to both a
monetary dollar amount and the number of shares outstanding. This approach is designed to ensure that a
substantial short position in either a small capitalization security or a large capitalization security could
potentially trigger a reporting obligation under Threshold A. As noted above, the Reporting Thresholds
are based on a Manager’s gross short position in the equity security itself, and do not include the
calculation of derivative positions or long positions in the equity security. The Commission believes that
this is a simple and straight forward approach for Managers to determine whether they meet Threshold A
that avoids any additional cost and complexity of including derivative or long positions.
The Commission believes that requiring reporting of short positions with a US dollar value of $10
million or more would capture Managers with substantial short positions, even if such positions are
relatively small compared to the market capitalization of the issuer. To determine whether this dollar
threshold is met, a Manager will be required to determine its end of day gross short position on each
settlement date during the calendar month and multiply that figure by the closing price at the close of
regular trading hours on the relevant settlement date.
The Commission believes that using end of day gross short position, rather than an intraday high
gross short position, for example, would help to prevent Managers engaged in intraday market making
strategies (who do not typically carry large overnight short positions) from triggering this $10 million
threshold.78 The use of the end of day position on any settlement date as opposed to the last settlement
date of the month is designed to prevent a scenario where, for example, a Manager engages in trading
activity on the last day of the month to avoid reporting altogether.
In addition, the Commission believes that requiring the reporting of short positions with a 2.5%
or higher monthly average gross short position would capture Managers with gross short positions that are
large relative to the size of the issuer, and could therefore have a significant impact on the issuer. Using a
monthly average gross short position, rather than an end of month gross short position, is also designed to
prevent the scenario where a Manager engages in trading activity on the last day of the month in order to

78 See e.g., Albert J. Menkveld, High frequency trading and the new market makers, 16 J. FIN. MKTS., 712,
712-740 (2013).
39
avoid reporting. To determine whether this percentage threshold is met, a Manager shall (a) identify its
gross short position in the equity security at the close of each settlement date during the calendar month,
and divide that figure by the number of shares outstanding in such security at the close of that settlement
date, and (b) add up the daily percentages during the calendar month as determined in (a) and divide that
total by the number of settlement dates during the calendar month of the reporting period. The number of
shares outstanding of the equity security shall be determined by reference to an issuer’s most recent
annual or quarterly report, and any subsequent update thereto, filed with the Commission.
Threshold B. The Commission is separately proposing a single-pronged reporting threshold
structure with regard to any equity security of a non-reporting company issuer. Specifically, Threshold B,
identified in Proposed Rule 13f-2(a), is focused on Managers that, with regard to each equity security of a
non-reporting company issuer in which the Manager and all accounts over which the Manager or any
person under the Manager’s control has investment discretion, collectively have a gross short position in
the security with a US dollar value of $500,000 or more at the close of regular trading hours on any
settlement date during the calendar month.
With regard to an equity security of a non-reporting company issuer, the Commission understands
that the number of total shares outstanding may not be readily and consistently accessible to Managers.
As such, the Commission has determined that a single-pronged reporting threshold based on a set dollar
value is appropriate for equity securities of non-reporting company issuers. The Commission believes
that this approach is an efficient way for Managers to determine whether they meet Threshold B that
avoids the potential additional cost and complexity of locating total number of shares outstanding for a
non-reporting company issuer that might be difficult, or impossible, to locate.
Like Threshold A, Threshold B is based on a Manager’s gross short position in the equity security
itself, and does not include the calculation of derivative positions or long positions in the equity security.
As noted above, the Commission believes that this is a simple and straight forward approach for
Managers to determine whether they meet Threshold B that avoids any additional cost and complexity of
including derivative or long positions.
40
The Commission believes that requiring reporting of short positions with a US dollar value of
$500,000 or more would capture Managers with substantial short positions in an equity security of a
non-reporting company issuer, even if such positions are relatively small compared to the market
capitalization of the issuer. To determine whether this dollar threshold is met, a Manager will be required
to determine its end of day gross short position on each settlement date during the calendar month and
multiply that figure by the closing price at the close of regular trading hours on the relevant settlement
date. In circumstances where such closing price is not available, a Manager would be required to use the
price at which it last purchased or sold any share of that security, which would be readily available to the
Manager, in determining whether Threshold B is met.
The Commission believes that using end of day gross short position, rather than an intraday high
gross short position, for example, would help to prevent market participants engaged in intraday market
making strategies (who do not typically carry large overnight short positions) from triggering this
$500,000 threshold. The use of the end of day position on any settlement date as opposed to the last
settlement date of the month is designed to prevent a scenario where, for example, a Manager engages in
trading activity on the last day of the month to avoid reporting altogether.
2. Determination of Reporting Threshold
As discussed in this section, the Reporting Thresholds are based on comment letters and analysis
of Form SH data collected under Rule 10a-3T. Rule 10a-3T required reporting of short positions that
were either greater than 0.25% of shares outstanding or $10 million in fair market value. Comment letters
to Rule 10a-3T generally concurred with the dollar reporting obligation but expressed concerns that the
percentage obligation was too low. Suggestions for a percentage reporting obligation ranged from 1% to
5% of shares outstanding.79
 79 See, e.g., Seward & Kissel LLP, available at https://www.sec.gov/comments/s7-31-08/s73108-43.pdf,
Investment Adviser Association, available at https://www.sec.gov/comments/s7-31-08/s73108-38.pdf, and
Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association, available at https://www.sec.gov/comments/s7-31-
08/s73108-52.pdf.
41
Threshold A. Based on analysis of Form SH data,
80 the Commission believes that a two-pronged
threshold of $10 million or 2.5% of shares outstanding would provide significant coverage of the dollar
value of positions, while limiting the reporting burden on Managers. Panel A of Table I shows the
Reporting Threshold would have captured 89% of the dollar value of the positions reported by Managers
who were required to report Form SH; Panel B shows that it would have captured 346 Managers.81 The
reporting burden would not significantly increase compared to slightly higher threshold levels, while the
value of the positions potentially collected would drop significantly for higher dollar threshold levels.

80 To perform this analysis, Form SH data on daily short positions for November 2008 through February 2009
were filtered to remove duplicate and missing observations, weekend or holiday observations, and positions below
the de minimis reporting threshold. They were matched to Center for Research in Security Prices, LLC for daily
closing prices and Compustat for daily shares outstanding. The Commission recognizes that the results of an
analysis of Form SH data may not fully reflect the status quo but that the analysis uses appropriate data currently
available to the Commission for this use. The Form SH data covered a limited time period, may not be comparable
because of subsequent market changes, and did not represent “normal” market conditions as the trading took place
during and after the 2008 financial crisis. Additionally, Managers that exercise investment discretion with respect to
accounts holding Section 13(f) securities having an aggregate fair market value of less than $100 million were not
required to report. Further, we believe that many aggregated short positions that we calculated using Form SH data
likely overestimate the actual number of shares that were short. This is because in many instances the size of a short
position calculated using Form SH data was greater than 100% of FINRA short interest for the same stock on the
same date. This difference could potentially be explained if arranged financing, which is not included in the
definition of FINRA short interest, was a large fraction of aggregated Form SH short positions. According to
FINRA, “arranged financing programs (sometimes called ‘enhanced lending’ or ‘short arranging products’)
[describe an arrangement in] which a customer [] borrow[s] shares from [its broker’s] domestic or foreign affiliate
and [then] use[s] those shares to close out a short position in the customer’s account.” See FINRA Notice 21-19
available at https://www.finra.org/sites/default/files/2021-06/Regulatory-Notice-21-19.pdf. In addition, this
difference could also be explained if affiliated Managers reported the same short positions on multiple Form SH
filings. Despite the potential overestimate, the Commission believes that the analysis provides information
informative for selecting the Reporting Threshold because it involves the same type of entities (Managers) and the
same activity (short positions). Intraday short selling activity could not be examined because the data field for
“Number of Securities Sold Short” was populated in only 7% of observations after filters were applied, likely
because most short selling volumes were below the threshold.
81 Although they were not required to, some Managers submitted data for positions below the 10a-3T
reporting threshold. These were excluded from the analysis. See Part VIII.C.3.v for additional discussion. See also
infra notes 365-66 and accompanying text.
42
Table I: Various Threshold Levels for Monthly Average Positions and Monthly Maximum Dollar
Value
This table reports the coverage of Managers reporting at different threshold levels. Data are from Form SH filings
for a 4 month period from 2008 to 2009. The “Greater than” levels are cumulative. Entries are calculated as a
percentage of Manager/stock observations for the row or column criteria. Rows are monthly average positions as a
percentage of shares outstanding and columns are monthly maximum unscaled dollar value of positions as
determined by the daily closing price in Center for Research in Security Prices, LLC (CRSP). Values in Panel A are
average percentages of total position dollar value. Values in Panel B are the average number of Managers reporting.
Panel A: Percentage of Position Dollar Value
Greater than
Greater than $0 $1M $5M $10M $15M $20M $25M $50M $100M
0.0% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100%
0.25% 100% 100% 100% 100% 98% 96% 94% 88% 82%
0.5% 100% 100% 98% 95% 92% 88% 85% 76% 68%
1.0% 100% 100% 96% 91% 85% 81% 77% 65% 54%
1.5% 100% 100% 96% 90% 83% 78% 74% 60% 48%
2.0% 100% 100% 95% 90% 83% 77% 72% 58% 45%
2.5% 100% 100% 95% 89% 82% 77% 72% 56% 43%
3.0% 100% 100% 95% 89% 82% 76% 71% 55% 42%
4.0% 100% 100% 95% 89% 82% 76% 71% 54% 40%
5.0% 100% 100% 95% 89% 82% 76% 71% 54% 39%
Panel B: Number of Managers by Position Percentage or Position Dollar Value
Greater than
Greater than $0 $1M $5M $10M $15M $20M $25M $50M $100M
0.0% 442 442 442 442 442 442 442 442 442
0.25% 442 442 442 442 435 429 425 421 419
0.5% 442 435 406 402 388 380 373 360 355
1.0% 442 433 384 373 348 335 320 294 281
1.5% 442 432 377 362 333 314 293 255 232
2.0% 442 432 374 350 319 297 275 229 202
2.5% 442 432 373 346 312 286 261 210 178
3.0% 442 432 373 345 310 282 255 200 165
4.0% 442 432 372 344 306 277 247 184 142
5.0% 442 432 372 343 303 274 243 174 127

Threshold B. Based on analysis of OTC Markets data,82 the Commission believes that a
threshold of $500,000 would provide significant coverage of the dollar value of positions, while limiting

82 This analysis was performed using data from OTC Markets Group Inc. available through Wharton
Research Data Services, https://wrds-www.wharton.upenn.edu/pages/about/data-vendors/otc-markets-group/. The
data were filtered to only include equities that had a closing price and short interest on September 30, 2020.
Approximately 13% of the data did not have total shares outstanding available, representing approximately 14% of
the dollar value of short interest. We use these data without shares outstanding as a proxy for non-reporting issuers.
The Commission used September 2020 because that is the most recent date in which a dataset containing total shares
outstanding for a broad set of OTC equities was available.
43
the reporting burden on Managers. The $500,000 threshold is also similar to the median dollar value of
2.5% of the market capitalization of OTC stocks for which we were able to obtain total shares
outstanding. The median for this set of stocks was approximately $460,000. The proposed threshold of
$500,000 is the rounded median and is likely greater than 2.5% of the market capitalization of the equity
securities of non-reporting company issuers, assuming such equities have lower market capitalization than
that of reporting company issuers. The Commission believes that this level provides a reasonable
estimate in the absence of data on the market capitalization for equity securities of non-reporting
company issuers. Table II shows Threshold B would have captured over 99% of the dollar value of short
positions and 15% to 24% of Managers, assuming 1 to 3 Managers had equivalently-sized short positions
in each stock.
Table II: Various Threshold Levels for OTC Stocks
This table reports the coverage of the short interest in the equities in non-reporting company issuers at different
threshold levels. Data are from OTC Markets Group for September 30, 2020. The “Greater than” levels are
cumulative. “% of $ Short Interest” is the percentage of total dollar value of short interest. “% of Short Positions”
is the percentage of short positions, assuming 1 or 3 Managers have short positions in each stock.
Greater Than % of $ Short Interest
% of Short Positions
(1 Manager per stock)
% of Short Positions
(3 Managers per stock)
$50K 99.91% 48.08% 35.47%
$100K 99.82% 40.38% 27.56%
$250K 99.52% 29.70% 21.58%
$500K 99.17% 23.72% 15.60%
$1M 98.65% 19.66% 13.03%
$5M 95.30% 10.90% 6.84%
$10M 92.66% 8.76% 3.63%
E. Supplementing Current Short Sale Data Available From FINRA and the Exchanges
As noted above, certain short sale data is publicly disseminated currently by FINRA and most of
the exchanges. Notably, however, FINRA or the exchanges, at their discretion, could modify, or
eliminate, their collection or publication of such short sale data. Moreover, the Commission understands
that some of the exchanges require payment of a fee to access the data, which may make it difficult for
some investors to access. The Commission believes that the short sale data provided pursuant to
Proposed Rule 13f-2 and Proposed Form SHO would supplement the short sale information that is
currently publicly available from FINRA and the exchanges, with the benefit of having certain of the
short sale data provided consolidated in a readily accessible location (i.e., EDGAR), with aggregated data
44
free to all investors and other market participants. The short sale data collected pursuant to Proposed
Rule 13f-2 and Proposed Form SHO, for example, would include certain activity related data that is not
currently available from FINRA or the exchanges, including activity in related options. While FINRA’s
existing short interest data reports aggregate short positions on a bi-monthly basis,83 they do not reflect
the timing with which short positions increase or decrease in the two week period between the two
reporting dates. The short sale data collected pursuant to Proposed Rule 13f-2 and Proposed Form SHO
would help to fill that gap. The Commission believes that publication of this additional information,
aggregated as discussed above, could help to further inform market participants regarding overall short
sale activity by reporting Managers with substantial short positions.
F. Request for Comments
While the Commission welcomes any public input on Proposed Rule 13f-2 and Proposed Form
SHO, the Commission asks commenters to consider the following questions.
• Q1: EDGAR: Managers that meet a Reporting Threshold would be required to report prescribed
short sale related data on Proposed Form SHO through EDGAR.
o Are there are other reporting mechanisms for reporting Managers that would be more
appropriate, including more efficient, than reporting through EDGAR? If so, please
identify the alternative reporting mechanism, and provide the reasons why such
alternative reporting mechanism would be more appropriate.
• Q2: Managers: Under Proposed Rule 13f-2, the Commission is proposing that the information
reported by Managers be aggregated across all reporting Managers prior to publication.
o Please discuss any views on the reporting requirements of Proposed Rule 13f-2 and
Proposed Form SHO.
o Please discuss any views regarding the Commission’s proposed approach to aggregate
the reported information across all reporting Managers prior to publication and address
the pros and cons, as applicable, of the Commission’s proposed approach.
 83 The short interest data reported reflects aggregate short positions as of the specified reporting
dates.
45
o Proposed Rule 13f-2 would require that a Manager provide identifying information
including its active LEI (if it has one) when filing Proposed Form SHO. If a Manager
does not have an active LEI, should such Manager be required to obtain an LEI?
• Q3: Hedging Information: When reporting on Proposed Form SHO, Managers would be
required to identify whether the gross short position reported is fully hedged, partially hedged, or
not hedged.
o Please describe any views regarding the reporting of hedging information as proposed by
the Commission and address the pros and cons, as applicable.
o Do Managers generally know whether a position is fully hedged or partially hedged?
o Is there a common understanding among Managers regarding what fully hedged or
partially hedged means? Are those understandings different than the Commission’s
proposed instructions and discussion above? If there is a common understanding or
definition, please describe it.
o Is the Commission’s description of “fully hedged” or “partially hedged” appropriate for
purposes of reporting under Proposed Rule 13f-2? If so, describe why. If not, please
describe what would be an appropriate definition of these terms for purposes of Manager
reporting under Proposed Rule 13f-2.
o Would the required hedging information provide important information to assist in
interpreting the reported gross short position information?
 If not, what other information might help to inform on the economic exposure of
the reported gross short position?
46
• Q4: Publication of “Activity” Information by the Commission:
o Please discuss any views regarding the Commission’s proposed approach with regard to
the publication of aggregated “net” activity, as described above, and address the pros and
cons, as applicable.
o Would aggregated “net” activity be more useful and informative if it was published by
“category” of activity identified in Information Table 2, rather than consolidated across
all “categories” of activity identified in Information Table 2?
o Is there another manner in which aggregated “activity” information could be published
that would be more useful and informative than is proposed by the Commission? If so,
please describe.
• Q5: Reporting Thresholds: Under Proposed Rule 13f-2, only Managers that meet a stated
Reporting Threshold would be required to report on Proposed Form SHO through EDGAR. This
approach is intended to focus reporting by Managers with substantial gross short positions.
o Are the proposed Reporting Thresholds appropriate? If so, explain why. If not, explain
why not and how the Reporting Thresholds should be modified.
o Do you believe that Managers would try to avoid triggering the proposed Reporting
Thresholds? If so, please explain.
o In determining whether the dollar value threshold in Threshold A (US dollar value of $10
million or more) is met, the Commission proposes that a Manager utilize the closing price
at the close of regular trading hours on the settlement date. Should Managers be required
to use a specific source of information in determining the closing price of the equity
security? If yes, explain why, and describe the source(s) of information. Could there be
circumstances in which a closing price is not available for equity securities subject to
Threshold A? If yes, please describe those circumstances. In such circumstances, should
a Manager be required to use a specific source of information in determining the closing
price of the equity security?
47
o To determine whether the percentage threshold in Threshold A (2.5% or more) is met, the
Commission proposes that a Manager utilize the number of outstanding shares of the
security for which information is being reported as determined by reference to an issuer’s
most recent annual or quarterly report, and any subsequent update thereto, filed with the
Commission. Are there circumstances in which Managers should not reference these
reports filed with the Commission to determine the number of outstanding shares? If yes,
please describe those circumstances. Should Managers be required or permitted to use a
different source of information in determining the number of shares outstanding of the
equity security? If yes, please explain why, and describe the source(s) of information.
o In determining whether the dollar value threshold in Threshold B (US dollar value of
$500,000 or more) is met, the Commission proposes that a Manager utilize the closing
price at the close of regular trading hours on the settlement date. The Commission
further proposes that in circumstances where such closing price is not available, a
Manager would be required to utilize the price at which it last purchased or sold any
share of that equity security in determining whether Threshold B is met. Should
Managers be required to use a specific source of information in determining the closing
price of such an equity security—for example, the closing price provided on an
interdealer quotation system (“IDQS”)84 or an alternative trading system (“ATS”)85? Or
alternatively, last available sale price of such equity security? If yes, explain why, and
describe the source(s) of information.
o Managers would be required to report their gross short positions in equity securities
without offsetting such gross short positions with long shares of the equity security or
with an equivalent long position through derivatives of the equity security. Are there any
pros and cons of such a proposed approach, especially when compared to using a “net”
 84 See 17 CFR 240.15c2-11(e)(3).
85 See 17 CFR 242.300(a).
48
short interest position calculation? If so, explain why, and describe any associated costs
and benefits.
• Q6: Securities Covered: Under Proposed Rule 13f-2, Managers would be required to report to
the Commission certain short sale related data, as described above, for equity securities consistent
with the Commission’s short sale regulations (i.e., Regulation SHO).
o Should reporting Managers be required to report short sale related data for a different
universe of securities than equity securities consistent with Regulation SHO? If so,
please explain why and describe the universe of securities that would be more
appropriate.
o Should fixed income securities be included under Proposed Rule 13f-2? If yes, explain
why and describe what costs and benefits might be associated with such reporting.
o Should other securities be included under Proposed Rule 13f-2? If yes, identify such
securities, explain why, and describe what costs and benefits might be associated with
such reporting.
o Should certain securities be excluded from Proposed Rule 13f-2 reporting? If yes,
identify the securities in question, and explain why.
o ETFs would be included under Proposed Rule 13f-2. Should ETFs be excluded from
Proposed Rule 13f-2? If yes, describe why. If no, explain why not.
• Q7: Economic Short Positions: Proposed Rule 13f-2 requires that a Manager calculate its gross
short position in the equity security in determining whether it meets the Reporting Thresholds.
o Should a Manager also be required to include short positions resulting from derivatives in
determining whether it meets the Reporting Thresholds? If so, explain why, and describe
any associated costs and benefits to doing so. If not, explain why not.
 Should only certain derivative positions be included? If so, which ones and why?
 Should certain derivative positions not be included? If so, which ones and why?
49
 Does excluding derivative positions create opportunities to avoid triggering the
Reporting Thresholds through other economically equivalent instruments? If so,
please explain.
• Q8: Short Position Information: Under Proposed Rule 13f-2, Managers that meet a Reporting
Threshold are required to report their end of month gross short position in the equity security.
o Should a Manager also be required to separately report its end of month gross short
position in derivatives, including, for example, options? Please explain.
o If yes, should only certain derivatives be reported? Please explain.
o If yes, should certain derivatives not be reported? Please explain.
o Please describe any views related to the pros or cons associated with reporting end of
month gross short positions in derivatives.
o Proposed Form SHO requires Managers to report CUSIP and if assigned, FIGI, for a
security for which information is being reported in both Instruction Tables 1 and 2. If a
FIGI has been assigned, should a Manager be required to report CUSIP as well?
o Please describe any views related to the position data that a Manager would be required
to report as described in Information Table 1 of Proposed Form SHO.
• Q9: Short Sale “Activity” Information Reported by Managers: Under Proposed Rule 13f-2,
Managers would be required to report on Proposed Form SHO all activity in the equity security
on each settlement date during the calendar month.
o Please describe any views related to the “categories” of activity data that a Manager
would be required to report as described in Information Table 2 of Proposed Form SHO.
o With regard to the reporting of “other” activity, are there certain types of “other” activity
that should be reported? If yes, describe the other activity and describe why it should be
reported.
o ETF creations and redemptions would be included under Proposed Rule 13f-2. Should
ETF creations and redemptions be excluded from Proposed Rule 13f-2? If yes, describe
why. If no, explain why not.
50
o Should other activity be included or excluded from Proposed Rule 13f-2? If yes, describe
the other activity and describe why it should be included or excluded.
• Q10: Indirect Short Positions or Short Activities: Managers meeting a Reporting Threshold
would be required to report a gross short position in an ETF, but would not be required to
consider short positions that the ETF holds in individual underlying equity securities that are part
of the ETF basket in determining whether the Manager meets a Reporting Threshold for such
underlying equity securities that are part of the ETF basket.
o Should Managers be required to consider short positions that the ETF holds in individual
underlying equity securities that are part of the ETF basket in determining whether the
Manager meets a Reporting Threshold for such underlying equity securities that are part
of the ETF basket? If yes, explain why. If no, explain why not.
o Are there other diversified portfolio products in addition to ETFs that should be
included? If yes, describe the product. Describe why, or why not, a Manager should be
required to consider short positions in individual underlying equity securities of the
product’s basket of assets.
• Q11: Frequency of Reporting: Under Proposed Rule 13f-2, a Manager that meets a Reporting
Threshold must file Proposed Form SHO with the Commission within 14 calendar days after the
end of each calendar month.
o Is monthly reporting by Managers appropriate? If so, explain why. If no, explain why
not and describe an alternative frequency of reporting that is more appropriate.
o Does reporting within 14 calendar days of the end of the calendar month provide
reporting Managers sufficient time to accurately report the short sale related information
as described in Proposed Rule 13f-2? If no, please explain why not and describe any
suggested alternative timeline(s). Alternatively, is the 14 calendar days after the end of
the calendar month reporting period for Managers too much time? If so, please explain
why and describe any suggested alternative.
51
• Q12: Multiple Managers with Investment Discretion. As noted above, as is the case for Form
13F filers, under Proposed Rule 13f-2, to prevent duplicative reporting of Proposed Form SHO if
two or more Managers, each of which is required by Proposed Rule 13f-2 to file Proposed Form
SHO for the reporting period, exercise investment discretion with respect to the same securities,
only one such Manager must report the information in its report on Proposed Form SHO.
o Please describe any views related to the pros or cons associated with the Commission’s
proposed approach as described above.
o Will a Manager always be aware of instances in which there is another Manager(s) with
investment discretion with respect to the same securities? If yes, how will that Manager
be aware of the other Manager(s)? If yes, if there is more than one Manager that has
investment discretion with respect to the same securities, how would each manager
determine which Manager shall report short position and short position activity pursuant
to Proposed Form SHO in order to avoid duplicative reporting?
o Should there be a mechanism that requires Managers to coordinate with one another to
avoid duplicative reporting? If yes, please describe. In addition, please describe any
alternative approach designed to prevent duplicative reporting by Managers.
• Q13: Amendments to Proposed Form SHO: A Manager that determines that it has filed a
Proposed Form SHO that includes inaccurate information must file an amended Proposed Form
SHO within 10 calendar days of discovery of the error. Amendments to Proposed Form SHO
must restate the Proposed Form SHO in its entirety and provide on the Proposed Form SHO
Cover Page prescribed information about the revision being made—including the impact on prior
Proposed Form SHO reporting periods. In prescribed circumstances, Managers must notify the
Commission staff of the filing of an amended Proposed Form SHO.
o Please discuss any views regarding the Commission’s proposed approach regarding filing
amendments to Proposed Form SHO and address the pros and cons, as applicable, of the
Commission’s proposed approach. In particular:
52
 Should the Commission provide updated data on a rolling basis for more (or less
than) 12 consecutive months?
 Should Managers notify Commission staff of errors for any data point of greater
than, or less than, 25%? Should the Commission flag, with an asterisk or other
indicator, updates to published data that are less than 25% of prior published
data? Should the Commission use other types of indicators (e.g., asterisk for an
update of 25% or greater, or other indicator for update of less than 25%, etc.)?
 In filing an amended Proposed Form SHO, should Managers be required to refile the entire Proposed Form SHO, or should Managers have the opportunity to
re-file only the data that is being corrected?
 The Commission is proposing to require Managers to notify Commission staff
about multiple consecutive Amendments and Restatements to help Commission
staff determine if there is a continuing issue with the integrity of that Manager’s
filings. Should Managers be required to notify Commission staff only if there are
a specified number of months of consecutive Amendments and Restatements,
e.g., three, four, or five consecutive months?
 The Commission is proposing that if a revision reported in an Amendment and
Restatement changes a data point reported in the Proposed Form SHO by twentyfive percent (25%) or more, the Manager must notify the Commission staff via
email within two (2) business days after filing the Amendment and Restatement.
Does two (2) business days provide a Manager with sufficient time to notify the
Commission? If no, please explain why not and describe any suggested
alternative timeline(s).
 The Commission is proposing that, regardless of the scope of the revision being
reported, if the data being reported in an Amendment and Restatement affects the
data reported on the Proposed Form SHO reports filed for multiple Proposed
Form SHO reporting periods, the Manager, within two (2) business days after
53
filing the Amendment and Restatement, must provide the Commission staff via
email with notice of such occurrence, and provide an explanation of the reason
for the revision. Does two (2) business days provide a Manager with sufficient
time notify the Commission? If no, please explain why not and describe any
suggested alternative timeline(s).
On November 18, 2021, the Commission proposed rule 10c-1 under the Exchange Act86 — a rule
designed to increase the transparency and efficiency of the securities lending market by requiring lenders
of securities to provide the material terms of securities lending transactions to a registered national
securities association, such as FINRA. On [insert date of vote], the Commission reopened the comment
period for proposed Rule 10c-1.87 We encourage commenters to review the Reporting of Securities
Loans Proposing Release to determine whether it might affect their comments on this proposing release
and Proposed Rule 13f-2 and Proposed Form SHO.
IV. Potential Alternative Approach to Proposed Rule 13f-2 Regarding How the Information
Reported on Proposed Form SHO is Published by the Commission
As noted above, the Commission’s Proposed Rule 13f-2 would require that a Manager provide
identifying information including its name and active LEI, if the Manager has an active LEI, when filing
Proposed Form SHO through EDGAR. The Commission would collect information from all reporting
Managers and publish aggregated information across all Managers reporting in a particular equity
security. The Commission, however, seeks comment on the following alternative approach regarding
how the information reported on Proposed Form SHO by reporting Managers would be published by the
Commission. Under this alternative approach, the Commission would not alter the proposed Reporting
Thresholds or the information that would be reported by a reporting Manager on Proposed Form SHO, as
described herein. However, under this alternative, the information reported by a Manager on Proposed
Form SHO would be published as it is reported to the Commission, and would not be aggregated with
 86 Reporting of Securities Loans, Exchange Act Release No. 93613 (Nov. 18, 2021) (“Reporting of Securities
Loans Proposing Release”).
87 Reopening of Comment Period for Reporting of Securities Loans, Exchange Act Release No. 34-94315
(Feb. 25, 2022).
54
information reported by other Managers. Reported information would therefore be published at the
individual Manager level, rather than aggregated across all reporting Managers prior to publication. The
reporting Manager’s identifying information, including its name and active LEI, if the Manager has an
active LEI, would be removed in an effort to anonymize the information published. In anonymizing the
reporting Manager’s information prior to publication, the Commission would be seeking to balance the
above noted calls for additional short sale transparency with, among other things, the above noted
concerns regarding potential issuer and investor retaliation against identified short sellers. The
Commission remains concerned that such retaliation could result in a reduction in short selling, along
with a reduction in the corresponding liquidity and price transparency benefits. The Commission further
understands that despite measures designed to help anonymize published information, it may still be
possible for market participants to identify certain reporting Managers. For example, it is not uncommon
for there to be only one large short seller in an equity security, and under such circumstances,
sophisticated traders may be able to link individual short sellers to their short positions reported on
Proposed Form SHO through public statements, social media posts, or even rumors.88 Using Threshold A
as described above, the Commission estimates that 32% of reportable equity securities would have only
one reporting Manager.
• Q14: Managers and the Potential Alternative Approach: Under the potential alternative
approach presented, the reported information by a Manager would be published at the Manager
level, without aggregation with other reporting Managers, with the reporting Manager’s
identifying information, including any active LEI, being removed prior to publication.
o Please discuss the Commission’s potential alternative approach, and address the pros and
cons, as applicable.
V. Proposed Amendment to Regulation SHO to Aid Short Sale Data Collection
The Commission is proposing new Rule 205 of Regulation SHO to facilitate its collection of
more comprehensive data on the lifecycle of short sales. Proposed Rule 205 would establish a new “buy
to cover” order marking requirement for certain purchase orders effected by a broker-dealer for its own
 88 See generally infra Part VIII.D.2.
55
account or the account of another person at the broker-dealer. Specifically, a broker-dealer would be
required to mark a purchase order as “buy to cover” if, at the time of order entry, the purchaser (i.e., either
the broker-dealer or another person) has a gross short position in such security in the specific account for
which the purchase is being made at such broker-dealer. A broker-dealer would be required to mark a
purchase order as “buy to cover,” regardless of the size of such purchase order in relation to the size of
the purchaser’s gross short position in such security in the account, and regardless of whether the gross
short position is offset by a long position held in the purchaser’s account at the time of order entry.89 If,
for example, the purchaser has a gross short position of 100 shares in security ABC in account number
123 at broker-dealer X, then purchases 50 shares of ABC through broker-dealer X in account number 123
(a purchase amount less than the purchaser’s gross short position in the account at broker-dealer X),
broker-dealer X would be required to mark the purchase order as “buy to cover.” If the purchase order
was instead for 150 shares of ABC in account number 123 (a purchase amount greater than the
purchaser’s gross short position in account number 123 at broker-dealer X), broker-dealer X would
likewise be required to mark the purchase order as “buy to cover.” The proposed “buy to cover” marking
requirement would not impact compliance with, or the operation of, other rules under Regulation SHO,
including a broker-dealer’s determination of whether to mark a sale order as “long,” “short,” or “short
exempt” pursuant to Rule 200.
There is presently no “buy to cover” order marking requirement, so the Commission does not
currently have regular access to “buy to cover” order marking information. The Commission believes
that having “buy to cover” order marking information would provide additional context to the
Commission and other regulators regarding the lifecycle of short sales by identifying the timing of
purchases that close out, in whole or in part, open short positions in a security. The Commission believes
this information would assist in reconstructing market events, and would be useful in identifying and
 89 Unlike the netting requirements under Rule 200 of Regulation SHO, the “buy to cover” order marking
determination under Proposed Rule 205 will be made on a “gross” basis. The Commission believes that this
approach would help minimize costs to broker-dealers because it would require them to determine only whether any
short position is held by the account on whose behalf the purchase is being effected regardless of whether such short
position is offset by any long position in the same security held by the purchaser in the same or any other account.
56
investigating any potentially abusive trading practices including any potential manipulative short
squeezes.
90
To reduce potential burdens and costs to broker-dealers, the proposed rule would require the
broker-dealer to determine only whether a purchase is being made for an account at the broker-dealer that
has a gross short position in that equity security in that account at the time of the purchase. The
Commission believes that this simplified approach would help minimize costs to broker-dealers by
allowing short positions held in any accounts other than the purchasing account, as well as offsetting long
positions held by the purchaser in the purchasing account or any other account, to be excluded for
purposes of the broker-dealer’s “buy to cover” order marking determination. The Commission believes
that the resulting data would provide the Commission with an indication of which purchases are
potentially associated with a “short squeeze,” where short sellers are pressured to cover their open short
positions by purchasing shares as a result of increases in the price of a stock or borrowing costs. Having
access to “buy to cover” information would help the Commission identify instances in which an increase
in “buy to cover” orders in a particular equity security coincides with an increase in price and/or
borrowing costs in the same equity security, and thus identify where “short squeezes” may be occurring.
As discussed further below, this data would aid the Commission in reconstructing significant market
events related to short selling.
The Commission alternatively considered proposing to require the broker-dealer to look across
multiple accounts held by the customer within the broker-dealer itself, if applicable, and/or to its
customer’s account(s) held at other firms, if applicable, but determined that the costs and burdens to the
broker-dealer would likely increase significantly under such an approach. With regard to other accounts
held by the customer within the broker-dealer itself, the broker-dealer would incur additional costs and
burdens in conducting such review. With regard to its customer’s accounts held at other firms, the
Commission understands that this information is not typically available to the broker-dealer and might be
challenging to obtain. As a result, after considering the potential costs and burdens to broker-dealers,
 90 See infra Part VIII.D.1 for a discussion of how the Commission could have used this data to enhance our
understanding and recreation of the ‘meme stock’ phenomenon of January 2021.
57
Proposed Rule 205 would require the broker-dealer to determine only whether a purchase is being made
for an account at the broker-dealer that has an open short position in that equity security in that account.
The proposed “buy to cover” requirement would likely create one-time programming costs to
broker-dealers as well as ongoing costs associated with order marking. The proposed “buy to cover”
order mark determination would be distinct from that made by broker-dealers’ existing order marking
systems and processes designed to ensure compliance with Rule 200 of Regulation SHO. Thus, brokerdealers would be required to update their respective systems and processes to account for compliance
with Proposed Rule 205 (i.e., broker-dealers would likely need to program systems to add an additional
field for the “buy to cover” order mark).
While the Commission welcomes any public input on Proposed Rule 205, the Commission asks
commenters to consider the following questions.
• Q15: Should Proposed Rule 205 also require the broker-dealer to mark a purchase as
“buy to cover” if the person is purchasing in an account that does not have a gross short
position, but the person may have gross short positions in other accounts at the same
and/or other broker-dealers? Would a purchase in a different account than an account
with a gross short position in that security also be reflective of a person’s intent to buy to
cover a gross short position in that security? To what extent do short sellers buy to cover
short positions by purchasing securities through accounts other than the account holding
the short position? Would persons buy to cover securities at accounts at different brokerdealers? How often might such buy to cover orders occur in different accounts or at
different broker-dealers? What would be the additional burdens or costs of such an
additional requirement?
• Q16: Are there likely to be costs, other than those described in the release, to brokerdealers resulting from the proposed “buy to cover” order marking requirement?
• Q17: Should Proposed Rule 205 require broker-dealers to make the “buy to cover” order
marking determination based on the purchaser’s net short position instead of gross short
position? What are the costs and benefits associated with each approach?
58
VI. Proposal to Amend CAT
In July 2012, the Commission adopted Rule 613 of Regulation NMS, which required national
securities exchanges and national securities associations (the “Participants”)91 to jointly develop and
submit to the Commission a national market system plan to create, implement, and maintain a
consolidated audit trail (the “CAT”).92 The goal of Rule 613 was to create a modernized audit trail
system that would provide regulators with more timely access to a sufficiently comprehensive set of
trading data, thus enabling regulators to more efficiently and effectively reconstruct market events,
oversee market behavior, and investigate misconduct. On November 15, 2016, the Commission approved
the national market system plan required by the CAT NMS Plan.93
Section 6.4(d) of the CAT NMS Plan provides that each Participant, through its Compliance
Rule,94 must require Industry Members95 to record and electronically report certain information to the
CAT Central Repository, which means that any broker-dealer that is a member of a national securities
exchange or a member of a national securities association must report the lifecycle of an order from
original receipt or origination, modification, cancellation, routing, execution (in whole or in part) and
 91 The Participants include: BOX Exchange LLC; Cboe BYX Exchange, Inc.; Cboe BZX Exchange, Inc.;
Cboe C2 Exchange, Inc.; Cboe EDGA Exchange, Inc.; Cboe EDGX Exchange, Inc.; Cboe Exchange, Inc.; Financial
Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc.; Investors’ Exchange LLC; Long-Term Stock Exchange, Inc.; MEMX LLC;
Miami International Securities Exchange LLC; MIAX Emerald, LLC; MIAX PEARL, LLC; Nasdaq BX, Inc.;
Nasdaq GEMX, LLC; Nasdaq ISE, LLC; Nasdaq MRX, LLC; Nasdaq PHLX LLC; The Nasdaq Stock Market LLC;
New York Stock Exchange LLC; NYSE American LLC; NYSE Arca, Inc.; NYSE Chicago, Inc.; and NYSE
National, Inc.
92 See Exchange Act Release No. 67457 (July 18, 2012), 77 FR 45722 (Aug. 1, 2012) (“Rule 613 Adopting
Release”).
93 Exchange Act Release No. 79318 (Nov. 15, 2016), 81 FR 84696, (Nov. 23, 2016) (“CAT NMS Plan
Approval Order”). The CAT NMS Plan is Exhibit A to the CAT NMS Plan Approval Order. See CAT NMS Plan
Approval Order, 81 FR at 84943-85034. The CAT NMS Plan functions as the limited liability company agreement
of the jointly owned limited liability company formed under Delaware state law through which the Participants
conduct the activities of the CAT (the “Company”). Each Participant is a member of the Company and jointly owns
the Company on an equal basis. The Participants submitted to the Commission a proposed amendment to the CAT
NMS Plan on August 29, 2019, which they designated as effective on filing. Under the amendment, the limited
liability company agreement of a new limited liability company named Consolidated Audit Trail, LLC serves as the
CAT NMS Plan, replacing in its entirety the CAT NMS Plan. See Exchange Act Release No. 87149 (Sept. 27,
2019), 84 FR 52905 (Oct. 3, 2019).
94 “Compliance Rule” means, with respect to a Participant, the rule(s) promulgated by such Participant as
contemplated by Section 3.11 of the CAT NMS Plan. See CAT NMS Plan, Section 1.1.
95 An “Industry Member” means a member of a national securities exchange or a member of a national
securities association. See CAT NMS Plan, Section 1.1.
59
allocation of an order, and receipt of a routed order to the CAT.96 This provides regulators, including the
Commission, access to comprehensive information regarding the lifecycle of orders, from origination to
execution, as well as the post-execution allocation of shares.
Broker-dealers, through the Compliance Rule adopted pursuant to the CAT NMS Plan, are
required to report some short sale order data, including for sell orders, whether an order is long, short, or
short exempt,97 but not other short sale order data, including when a buy order is designed to close out an
existing short position, or whether a market participant is relying on the bona fide market making
exception of the Regulation SHO locate requirement in Rule 203. To supplement the short sale related
data that would be reported by Managers to the Commission pursuant to Proposed Rule 13f-2 and on
Proposed Form SHO, the Commission now believes it is appropriate to amend the CAT NMS Plan to
require the Participants to require CAT reporting firms to report certain additional short sale related data
to the CAT, as discussed below.
A. “Buy to Cover” Information
First, the Commission proposes that Industry Members be required to report to the CAT “buy to
cover” information, which would be collected pursuant to Regulation SHO through Proposed Rule 205 as
discussed in Part IV above. Specifically, the Commission proposes to amend Section 6.4(d)(ii) of the
CAT NMS Plan by adding new subparagraph 6.4(d)(ii)(D) which would require the Participants to update
their Compliance Rules to require Industry Members to report for the original receipt or origination of an
order to buy an equity security, whether such buy order is for an equity security that is a “buy to cover”
order as defined by Rule 205(a) of Regulation SHO (17 CFR 242.205(a)).
98 This provision would require
Industry Members to identify “buy to cover” equity orders received or originated by Industry Members
 96 “Central Repository” means a repository responsible for the receipt, consolidation, and retention of all
information reported to the CAT pursuant to Rule 613 of Regulation NMS and the CAT NMS Plan. See CAT NMS
Plan, Section 1.1.
97 Section 1.1 of CAT NMS Plan defines “Material Terms of the Order,” which includes, for sell orders,
“whether the order is long, short, [or] short exempt[.]”
98 See Proposed Section 6.4(d)(ii)(D) of the CAT NMS Plan; Proposed Rule 205(a) of Regulation SHO, 17
CFR 242.205(a)).
60
and Customers99 as “buy to cover” orders in order receipt and order origination reports submitted to the
CAT Central Repository.
The originally proposed CAT NMS Plan would have required all CAT Reporters (i.e.,
Participants and Industry Members) to report an “open/close indicator” as a “Material Term” on all
orders, as required by Rule 613.100 This open/close indicator could have been used to identify “buy to
cover” equities orders, because it would have provided information on whether an order is to open or
close an existing position in a security. However, when the Commission approved the CAT NMS Plan, it
determined that it was appropriate to remove the proposed requirement that an open/close indicator be
reported as part of the Material Terms of the Order for equities and Options Market Maker quotations.101
At the time, three commenters objected to the requirement that CAT Reporters report an open/close
indicator for equities transactions. Among other things, commenters noted that an “open/close indicator”
is not used for equities, and believed that an additional or separate cost-benefit analysis should be done
before it be required for equities.102 One of these commenters stated that including an “open/close
indicator” for equities would require “significant process changes and involve parties other than CAT
Reporters, such as buy-side clients, OMS/EMS vendors, and others.”103 Ultimately, the Commission
decided that limiting the open/close indicator to listed options was “reasonable,” acknowledging concerns
in other areas, “including the lack of a clear definition of the term for equities transactions.”104
The Commission believes it is now appropriate to require “buy to cover” CAT reporting by
Industry Members. Unlike the “open/close indicator” requirement in Rule 613, which was included in the
definition Material Terms of the Order, the Commission is proposing to only require reporting by
 99 Section 1.1 of the CAT NMS Plan defines the term “Customer” as (a) the account holder(s) of the account
at a registered broker-dealer originating the order; and (b) any person from whom the broker-dealer is authorized to
accept trading instructions for such account, if different from the account holder(s). See also, 17 CFR 242.613(j)(3).
100 See 17 CFR 242.613(j)(7) (defining “Material Terms of the Order” to include “open/close indicator”);
Exchange Act Release No. 77724 (Apr. 27, 2016); 81 FR 30614, 30680 (May 17, 2016).
101 See CAT NMS Plan Approval Order, 81 FR at 84747.
102 See id.
103 See id.
104 See id. The Commission believes that the proposed reporting requirements here do not have the same issue
regarding the lack of a clear definition because, unlike simply requiring an “open/close indicator,” the proposed
reporting requirements more clearly define when a “buy to cover” indicator would be required to be reported.
61
Industry Members on a subset of CAT reports related to equity buy orders; specifically, order receipt and
order origination reports. Pursuant to the CAT NMS Plan, Material Terms of the Order are required to be
reported to the CAT for numerous other events in an order’s lifecycle, including routing of an order,
receipt of an order that has been routed, order modifications, order cancellations, and executions of
orders, in whole or in part.105 In addition, the proposed provisions only require “one-sided” CAT
reporting – that is, except in circumstances where an Industry Member originates a “buy to cover” order
and submits it to another Industry Member as a Customer (requiring both Industry Members to report
“buy to cover” information as part of order origination and order receipt reports, respectively), only one
CAT Reporter is required to report that an order is a “buy to cover” order to the CAT. In addition, the
“buy to cover” information does not have the same definitional issues as an “open/close indicator”
because “buy to cover” is being added to Regulation SHO, as discussed in Part IV above. “Buy to cover”
is also a more narrow concept than an “open/close indicator” and would require only a change to CAT
reporting for a subset of equity buy orders, and thus would not affect CAT reporting for a majority of
equity orders, and would not change CAT reporting relating to options trading at all. Because of this, the
costs associated with the reporting of “buy to cover” information to the CAT should be substantially less
than the costs of reporting an “open/close indicator” would have been.
The Commission believes that requiring proposed reporting of “buy to cover” information to the
CAT would provide valuable information for the Commission and other regulators in investigations and
reconstruction of market events. The Commission and regulators currently do not have ready access to
“buy to cover” information because they do not regularly receive Industry Member and customer position
information, and it is only possible to identify “buy to cover” orders if the Commission or regulators
independently obtain position information, such as by obtaining trade data and blotters from Industry
Members. Even then, it is difficult to identify and track equity orders that are “buy to cover.” Ready
 105 See Section 6.3(d) and 6.4(d) of the CAT NMS Plan. Because “buy to cover” information will only be
available on order receipt and order origination reports, Commission staff and regulators will have to do more
analysis to identify certain CAT records (e.g., order routes, modifications, cancellations, and executions) as
associated with a “buy to cover” order since Industry Members would not be required to report “buy to cover”
information on these CAT reports, but the Commission believes this inefficiency is justified by the reduction in
burden of reporting for Industry Members.
62
access to “buy to cover” information in the CAT would allow regulators to more easily determine whether
a purchase of an equity security increases the equity exposure of an Industry Member or Customer and
whether the buy covers a short position. Ready access to information used to determine whether an order
adds to an existing position or covers an existing short position would assist in detecting and investigating
portfolio pumping, short selling abuses, short squeezes marking the close, potential manipulation, insider
trading, or other rule violations, such as violations of Rule 105 of Regulation M, which generally governs
when short sellers can participate in a follow-on offering.106 This information would also enhance the
Commission staff’s and regulators’ analysis and interpretations of the impact short selling and “buys to
cover” have on the market, by more accurately lining up trading activity data available in the CAT with
security price changes to examine and study the impact of “short squeezes” on equity prices.
B. Reliance on Bona Fide Market Making Exception
The Commission also proposes to require CAT reporting firms that are reporting short sales to
indicate whether such reporting firm is asserting use of the bona fide market making exception under
Regulation SHO for the locate requirement in Rule 203 for the reported short sales. Specifically, the
Commission proposes to amend Section 6.4(d)(ii) of the CAT NMS Plan to add a new subparagraph (E)
which would require Participants to update their Compliance Rules to require Industry Members to report
to the CAT, for the original receipt or origination of an order to sell an equity security, whether the order
is a short sale effected by a market maker in connection with bona-fide market making activities in the
security for which the exception in Rule 203(b)(2)(iii) of Regulation SHO is claimed.107 The
Commission believes that this information would provide valuable data to both the Commission and other
regulators regarding the use of this exception by market participants, an exception which allows a brokerdealer (and consequently, a short seller) to avoid or delay certain requirements of Regulation SHO,
including the locate and close out requirements.
Rule 203(b)(1) of Regulation SHO generally prohibits a broker-dealer from accepting a short sale
order in an equity security from another person, or effecting a short sale in an equity security for its own
 106 17 CFR 242.105.
107 See proposed Section 6.4(d)(ii)(E) of the CAT NMS Plan.
63
account, unless the broker-dealer (i) has borrowed the security, (ii) has entered into a bona-fide
arrangement to borrow the security, or (iii) has reasonable grounds to believe that the security can be
borrowed so that it can be delivered on the date delivery is due.108 This is generally referred to as the
locate requirement. Rule 203(b)(2) of Regulation SHO provides an exception to the locate requirement
for short sales effected by a market maker in connection with “bona fide” market making activities.109 To
qualify for the bona fide market making exception, however, a firm must be engaged in bona fide market
making at the time of the short sale in question.110 The Commission adopted this narrow exception to
Regulation SHO’s locate requirement for market makers that may need to facilitate customer orders in a
fast moving market without possible delays associated with complying with such a requirement.111
The Commission previously proposed to require a locate identifier for short sales to be reported
to the CAT in Rule 613, but removed this requirement, among others, from the adopted rule text.112 At
the time, the Commission believed that the CAT would still achieve significant benefits without requiring
the routine recording and reporting of these specific data elements to the CAT, that the Commission could
obtain information from a broker-dealer in a follow-up request if necessary, and that the benefits of
having these specific data elements in the CAT would be minimal.113 However, with greater experience
and access to CAT Data, the Commission now believes that it is important for regulatory and surveillance
purposes to capture information regarding the use of the narrow bona fide market making exception to
Regulation SHO and no longer believes that the benefits of having this specific data element in the CAT
would be minimal. The Commission also believes that requiring this reporting would impact
 108 17 CFR 242.203(b)(1).
109 17 CFR 242.203(b)(2). The Commission has provided guidance on indicia of bona fide market making
activities eligible for the locate exception. See Regulation SHO Adopting Release, supra note 4 (setting forth
examples of activities that would not be considered to be bona fide market making activities); see also, Exchange
Act Release No. 58775 (Oct. 14, 2008), 73 FR 61690, 61698-99 (Oct. 17, 2004) (adopting amendments to
Regulation SHO and providing additional guidance on what constitutes bona fide market making). Whether activity
is considered bona fide market making activity for purposes of Regulation SHO will “depend on the facts and
circumstances of the particular activity” in question, and only market makers engaged in bona fide market making
activity in the security at the time they effect a short sale are eligible for the locate exception. See id. at 61699.
110 See id. at 61699.
111 See Regulation SHO Adopting Release, supra note 4, at 48015 n.67.
112 See Rule 613 Adopting Release, 77 FR at 45751.
113 See id.
64
substantially fewer CAT Reporters than the original Rule 613 proposal, which would have required locate
identifiers for all short sales.
There are a number of settled enforcement actions against firms in connection with their use of
the exception.114 Firms are not permitted to use the bona fide market making exception for, among other
things, speculative selling strategies or investment purposes of the broker-dealer that are disproportionate
to the usual market making patterns or practices of the broker-dealer in that security.115 Firms that do not
need to obtain a locate prior to effecting a short sale, on the basis of the bona fide market making
exception, have a competitive advantage over firms that are required to obtain a locate because these
firms can trade more quickly and more easily adjust to or take advantage of changing market conditions.
Currently, the Commission must request information from a broker-dealer to determine which orders have
been submitted pursuant to the bona fide market making exception. The Commission believes that
requiring Industry Members to identify short sales for which they are claiming the bona fide market
making exception would provide the Commission and other regulators an additional tool to determine
whether such activity qualifies for the exception, or instead could be indicative of, for example,
proprietary trading instead of bona fide market making.116
 114 See, e.g., In the Matter of Wilson-Davis & Company, Inc., Respondent, Order Making Findings and
Imposing Remedial Sanctions and a Cease-and-Desist Order Pursuant to Sections 15(b) and 21C of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, Release No. 80533 (April 26, 2017) (settled matter); In the Matter of Jeffrey A. Wolfson,
Robert A. Wolfson, and Golden Anchor Trading II, LLC (n/k/a Barabino Trading, LLC), Respondents, Order
Making Findings and Imposing Remedial Sanctions and Cease-and-Desist Order Pursuant to Sections 15(b) and 21C
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as to Robert A. Wolfson and Golden Anchor Trading II, LLC (n/k/a
Barabino Trading, LLC), Release No. 67450 (July 17, 2012) (settled matter).
115 See Regulation SHO Adopting Release, supra note 4, at 48015.
116 Depending on the circumstances, the proposed requirement to report the use of the bona fide market
making exception to Regulation SHO at order initiation could either reduce or increase compliance costs to market
participants. In some cases, for example, examiners identifying market participants for examination of prolonged
fails to deliver would be able to readily determine that such fails were due to bona fide market making activity,
obviating the need to examine the particular market participant based on such fails alone. In other circumstances, by
contrast, an indication of reliance on the bona fide market maker exception could be flagged for examination if it
appears that the market participant is unlikely to be engaging in bona fide market making activities to the extent of
the fails to deliver that have occurred—for instance, a market participant that does not post any quotes in the
security for which the fails are occurring that has indicated it is relying on the bona fide market making exception in
Regulation SHO. The Commission does not believe requiring the indicator will have a chilling effect on market
making generally. Rather, the indicator will be used to identify whether a short sale for which a market participant
is asserting the bona fide market making exception has been effected in connection with bona fide market making
activities such that the narrow exception to a narrow exception to the locate requirement of Regulation
SHO applies.
65
While Regulation SHO does not require market maker firms to record whether they are relying
upon the exception in Rule 203(b)(2)(iii) of Regulation SHO for bona fide market making activity, the
Commission believes that market maker firms that engage in equity trading should be able to identify
what trading activity qualifies for the exception so a firm can demonstrate its eligibility for the asserted
exception. Thus, the Commission believes that this information should be easily reportable to the CAT
by Industry Members that do rely upon this exception. As noted above, there is a narrow exception to
Regulation SHO’s locate requirement for bona fide market making in Rule 203(b)(2)(iii), and a firm
should know at the time that it submits a sell short order without performing a locate pursuant to the bona
fide market making exception whether or not it qualifies for the exception.
C. Request for Comments
While the Commission welcomes any public input on the Proposal to Amend CAT, the
Commission asks commenters to consider the following questions.
• Q18: Proposal to Amend CAT: Under the Proposal to Amend CAT, Industry Members would be
required to report certain additional short sale related data to the CAT, as described above.
o Are the proposed reporting requirements related to “buy to cover” and the bona fide
market making exception sufficiently clear and understandable to allow Industry
Members to collect and report the necessary information? Are the proposed requirements
sufficiently clear for the Participants to implement the necessary changes to their
Compliance Rules? Are the proposed requirements sufficiently clear for the CAT Plan
Processor to implement necessary systems and technical changes and implement revised
technical or other specifications required to facilitate and allow for the reporting of these
new CAT data elements?
o Please describe any technical challenges or concerns relating to the reporting, capture and
processing of the proposed new information.
o Are there concerns relating to the collection of “buy to cover” information by executing
brokers to report to the CAT? What difficulties would Industry Members face in
reporting their own proprietary “buy to cover” orders? Customer “buy to cover” orders?
66
Are there other concerns relating to the reporting of “buy to cover” information to the
CAT? If so, please describe those concerns and the specific issues or other burdens that
should be considered by the Commission.
o Are there concerns relating to the collection of or reporting reliance on the bona fide
market making exception of Regulation SHO to the CAT? Would it be difficult for
market making firms to identify what orders are originated pursuant to the bona fide
market making exception? If so, please describe those concerns and the specific issues or
other burdens that should be considered by the Commission.
o The proposal would require broker-dealers to identify, at order origination, whether they
are asserting use of the bona fide market making exception to the locate requirement.
Should the Commission also require identification of purchases by broker-dealers to
close out fails to deliver resulting from bona fide market making under Rule 204 of
Regulation SHO?117 If so, please describe the costs and benefits of such an approach.
o Is there any other short sale related data that should be reported to the CAT? If so, please
describe the costs and benefits of reporting that data.
• Q19: Cost of Reporting: Under the Proposal to Amend CAT, Industry Members would be
required to report certain additional short sale related data to the CAT, as described above.
o Please describe any views related to the anticipated costs or other burdens, as well as
benefits, associated with reporting under the Proposal to Amend CAT, and identify the
specific costs or other burdens that should be considered by the Commission.
 117 Rule 204 requires a participant of a registered clearing agency to deliver securities to a registered clearing
agency for clearance and settlement on a long or short sale transaction in any equity security by settlement date, or
to immediately close out a failure to deliver by borrowing or purchasing securities of like kind and quantity by the
applicable close out date. For a short sale, a participant must close out a failure to deliver by no later than the
beginning of regular trading hours on T+3. For a long sale, or for activity that is attributable to “bona fide” market
making activities, a participant must close out a failure to deliver by no later than the beginning of regular trading
hours on T+5.
67
VII. Paperwork Reduction Act Analysis
A. Background
Certain provisions of Proposed Rule 13f-2, Proposed Form SHO, Proposed Rule 205, and the
Proposal to Amend CAT contain new “collection of information” requirements within the meaning of the
Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 (“PRA”).118 The Commission is submitting the proposed collection of
information to the Office of Management and Budget (“OMB”) for review in accordance with the
PRA.119 The title for the collection of information is: “Proposal to Enhance Short Sale Data.” OMB has
not yet assigned a control number to the collection of information. An agency may not conduct or
sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a
currently valid OMB control number. The requirements of this collection of information are mandatory
for Managers under Proposed Rule 13f-2 and Proposed Form SHO, for broker-dealers under Proposed
Rule 205, and Plan Participants and CAT reporting firms under the Proposal to Amend CAT.
As discussed above,120 Proposed Rule 13f-2 and related Proposed Form SHO are designed to
provide greater transparency of short sale related data to regulators, investors and other market
participants by requiring certain Managers to file monthly on Proposed Form SHO, through EDGAR in
Proposed Form SHO-specific XML, certain short position and activity data. Under Proposed Rule 13f-2
and Proposed Form SHO, only those Managers that meet a specified Reporting Threshold for an equity
security would be required to file Proposed Form SHO.
Proposed Rule 205 would establish a new “buy to cover” order marking requirement for purchase
orders effected by a broker-dealer that applies if, at the time of order entry, the account for which the
purchase order is placed has a gross short position in the security being purchased.121 Such information
would provide additional context to the Commission and other regulators regarding the lifecycle of short
sales, would assist in reconstructing market events, and would be useful in identifying and investigating
potentially abusive short selling practices. The Commission believes that many broker-dealers will have
 118 44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq.
119 44 U.S.C. 3507(d) and 5 CFR 1320.11.
120 See supra Part III.A.
121 See supra Part V.
68
existing order marking systems and processes, and will be familiar with how to adapt and update them to
accommodate new order marks.
The Proposal to Amend CAT is intended to supplement the short sale related data that would be
reported by certain Managers to the Commission pursuant to Proposed Rule 13f-2 and Proposed Form
SHO. As discussed above, the Commission proposes that CAT reporting firms be required to report
“buy-to-cover” information to the CAT and believes that this information would allow Commission and
SRO staff to review the life of a short sale, from creation to termination, which would assist in
reconstructing unusual market events such as the market volatility in early 2021.122 In addition, the
Commission proposes to require CAT reporting firms that are reporting short sales to indicate whether
such reporting firm is asserting use of the bona fide market making exception for the “locate” requirement
in Rule 203 under Regulation SHO for the reported short sales. The Commission believes that this
information would provide valuable data to both the Commission and other regulators regarding the use
of the bona fide market making exception by market participants. The Proposal to Amend CAT could
potentially affect all CAT reporting firms, but the Commission believes that the proposal will primarily
affect those CAT reporting firms that engage in short sale activity with subsequent purchases to cover
such short positions.
Given the differences in the information collections applicable to these parties, the burdens
applicable to Managers, broker-dealers and CAT reporting firms are separated in the analysis below.
B. Burdens for Managers Under Proposed Rule 13f-2 and the Related Proposed Form
SHO
1. Applicable Respondents
As discussed above, Proposed Rule 13f-2 and Proposed Form SHO would require Managers that
trigger a Reporting Threshold to file monthly via EDGAR, on Proposed Form SHO, certain short position
and activity data. Under Section 13(f)(6)(A) of the Exchange Act and for purposes of Proposed Rule 13f2, Managers would include any person, other than a natural person, investing in or buying and selling
 122 See supra Part VI.A.
69
securities for its own account, and any person (including a natural person) exercising investment
discretion with respect to the account of any other person.123 Thus, the requirements of Proposed Rule
13f-2 could apply, for example, to investment advisers that exercise investment discretion over client
assets, including investment company assets; broker-dealers; insurance companies; banks and bank trust
departments; and pension fund managers or corporations that manage corporate investments or employee
retirement assets. Of those, the Commission estimates that, each month, approximately 1,000 Managers
would trigger a Reporting Threshold for at least one security, and therefore be required to file a Proposed
Form SHO.124
2. Burdens and Costs
The Commission believes that the burden associated with Proposed Rule 13f-2 and the related
Proposed Form SHO reporting in EDGAR would be similar to a Manager’s reporting requirements for
former Form SH. In October 2008, the Commission adopted interim temporary Rule 10a-3T, which
required institutional investment managers that exercise investment discretion with respect to accounts
holding Section 13(f) securities having an aggregate fair market value of at least $100 million to file Form
SH with the Commission following a calendar week in which it effected a short sale in a Section 13(f)
security, with some exceptions. Form SH included information on short sales and positions of Section
13(f) securities, other than options.125 With respect to each applicable Section 13(f) security, the Form
SH filing identified the issuer and CUSIP number of the relevant security and required the Manager’s
start of day short position, the number and value of securities sold short during the day, the end of day
 123 See also Instructions to Form 13F.
124 This estimate is similar to the estimate provided in the Disclosure of Short Sales and Short Positions by
Institutional Investment Managers, 73 FR at 61686. However, the number of estimated Proposed Form SHO filers
represents a monthly, as opposed to weekly, filing, and therefore the Commission estimates fewer overall filings per
month. Additionally, the estimate accounts for the estimate by the Commission staff that 346 Form SH filers would
have been required to file had a threshold of 2.5% of shares outstanding or $10 million position dollar value been
imposed during the analyzed time period. The estimate of 1,000 is higher than the 346 estimated Form SH filers to
account for: (1) Managers with discretion over less than $100 million, which were not required to file Form SH; (2)
the fact that Form SH was only required to be filed for 13(f) securities as opposed to all equity securities of both
reporting and non-reporting issuers; and (3) the fact that Form SH did not include a second, lower threshold
(Threshold B) for short positions in securities of non-reporting issuers.
125 See supra note 35.
70
short position, the largest intraday short position, and the time of the largest intraday short position.126 In
adopting interim temporary Rule 10a-3T, which required certain Managers to file weekly nonpublic
reports via Form SH, the Commission believed that Managers would spend an estimated 20 hours to
prepare and file each Form SH.127
While recognizing that the information required under former Form SH differs from that required
under Proposed Form SHO, the Commission believes that both forms require the reporting of short sale
related data of similar depth and complexity.
128 However, Proposed Rule 13f-2 would require monthly
reporting if certain conditions are met, as opposed to the weekly reporting required by Form SH for
Managers that effected short sales within the preceding week,129 which is anticipated to decrease the
overall volume of reports required to be filed by Managers. Accordingly, the Commission believes that
the burden associated with preparing and filing Proposed Form SHO in EDGAR would be approximately
20 hours per filing, consistent with that of former Form SH. The Commission further estimates that
Managers would collectively spend approximately 240,000 hours per year to comply with the reporting
requirements of Proposed Rule 13f-2.
130 The Commission estimates that the hourly cost of internal
expertise required for each filing would be $217.55, which includes a blended calculation of the estimated
hourly rate for a compliance attorney, senior programmer, and in-house compliance clerk.131 Taken
 126 Form SH was adopted in the wake of the 2008 financial crisis, and remained in effect until July 2009.
127 See Disclosure of Short Sales and Short Positions by Institutional Investment Managers, 73 FR at 61686
(Stating that, “[t]he 20 hour per filing estimate is based on data received from a small sample of actual filers and a
random sample of filings conducted by our Office of Economic Analysis.”).
128 Under Form SH, Managers who met the applicable threshold and effected a short sale in a Section 13(f)
security in the preceding week were required to file a report identifying the opening short position, closing short
position, largest intraday short position, and the time of the largest intraday short position, for that security during
each calendar day of the prior week. Exchange Act Release No. 58591 (Sept. 18, 2008), 73 FR 55175, 55176 (Sept.
24, 2008).
129 See id.
130 20 hours per filing x 1,000 filings by Managers each month x 12 months = 240,000 hours.
131 The $217.55 wage rate reflects current estimates of the blended hourly rate for an in-house compliance
attorney ($368), a senior programmer ($334) and in-house compliance clerk ($71). $217.55 is based on the
following calculation: (($368) + ((($334 + $71) ÷ 2) x 10)) ÷ 11 = $217.55. The estimated proportion of compliance
attorney (1/11th) to senior programmer and in-house compliance clerk (10/11ths) time burden is based on commenter
input and computation of the estimated burden for the filing of Form 13F-HR. See Electronic Submission of
Applications for Orders, Exchange Act Release No. 93518 (Nov. 4, 2021), 86 FR 64839 (Nov. 19, 2021) at 64860-
61 (“Electronic Submission of Applications for Orders”). The $368 per hour and $334 per hour figures for a
compliance attorney and a senior programmer, respectively, are based on salary information for the securities
industry compiled by the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association’s Office Salaries in the Securities
71
together the estimated burden hours and hourly rate for the filing of Proposed Form SHO result in an
estimated annual cost to the industry of $52,212,000.132 The Commission, however, recognizes that
advances in technology over time could result in Managers spending less time preparing and filing
Proposed Form SHO than is estimated above.133
The Commission also anticipates that most Managers will file Proposed Form SHO directly in the
structured XML-based data language for Proposed Form SHO, 134 rather than using the fillable web form
provided by EDGAR, resulting in some limited additional costs for each filing.
135 The Commission
believes that Managers that file Proposed Form SHO using a structured XML-based data language could
incur an additional burden of 2 hours of work by a programmer,
136 at an estimated cost of $540.137 The
Commission further estimates that Managers would collectively spend up to approximately 24,000 hours

Industry 2013 (“SIFMA Report”), modified by Commission staff to account for an 1800-hour work year and
inflation, and multiplied by 5.35 to account for bonuses, firm size, employee benefits and overhead. The $71 per
hour figure for a compliance clerk is based on salary information from the SIFMA Report, modified by Commission
staff to account for an 1800-hour work-year and inflation, and multiplied by 2.93 to account for bonuses, firm size,
employee benefits and overhead. See Exchange Act Release No. 89290 (July 10, 2020), 85 FR 46016 (July 31,
2020) (“Proposed Reporting Threshold for Institutional Investment Managers”).
132 20 hours per filing x 1,000 filings by Managers each month x 12 months x $217.55 per hour = $52,212,000.
133 See Electronic Submission of Applications for Orders, 86 FR at 64859 (stating that “[c]ommenters stated
that the advances in technology have made the process of completing and filing Form 13F highly automated,
reducing the time and external costs to managers in complying with this requirement.”).
134 The Commission believes most Managers would be familiar with other EDGAR Form-specific XML data
languages, the use of which is required for the filing (by Managers that exercise investment discretion with respect
to accounts holding 13(f) Securities having an aggregate fair market value on the last trading day of any month of
any calendar year of at least $100 million) of Form 13F. See Frequently Asked Questions About 13F, available at
https://www.sec.gov/divisions/investment/13ffaq.htm. In order to achieve a conservative estimate of industry costs,
the Commission estimates that all of the 1,000 Managers estimated to file Proposed Form SHO each month will do
so directly using the structured XML-based data language rather than the fillable web form provided by EDGAR.
135 See Investment Company Act Release No. 34441 (Dec. 15, 2021) (proposing release) at 123-125, available
at https://www.sec.gov/rules/proposed/2021/ic-34441.pdf (stating that, in the context of money market funds filing
Form N-CR, the use of the XML-based data language for that Form may result in “some additional reporting costs
related to adjusting their systems to a different data language” but that such changes “may reduce costs and
introduce additional efficiencies for money market funds already accustomed to reporting using structured data and
may reduce overall reporting costs in the longer term.”).
136 The 2 hour estimated burden is consistent with similar estimates for the use of structured XML data formats
for the filing of Form N-CR and Form 24F-2. See Investment Company Act Release No. 34441 (Dec. 15, 2021) at
282 Table 10. See also, Exchange Act Release No. 88606 (Apr. 8, 2020), 85 FR 33290, 33329 n.439 (June 1, 2020)
(stating that “[w]e assume that the burden of tagging Form 24F-2 in a structured XML format would be 2 hours for
each filing.”).
137 Based on industry sources, Commission staff previously estimated that the average hourly rate for
technology services in the securities industry (outside senior programmer or systems programmer) is $270. See
Exchange Act Release No. 83062 (Apr. 18, 2018), 83 FR 21574, 21653 n.493 (May 9, 2018) (“Regulation Best
Interest Proposing Release”).
72
and $6,480,000 per year to file Proposed Form SHO directly in a structured XML-based data language.
138
The Commission also estimates that a similar, additional burden of 2 hours of work by a programmer per
filing would apply to Managers filing an amended Form SHO directly in a structured XML-based data
language.
The Commission estimates that approximately 3.5% of the Managers that file Proposed Form
SHO each month would also file an amended Proposed Form SHO, resulting in an additional burden and
cost for an estimated 35 Managers each month.139 The additional burden could take up to the original 20
hours to process and file, as it would require the filing of an entirely new Proposed Form SHO.140 The
associated wage rate would also be consistent with the cost of expertise required to complete the original
Proposed Form SHO, estimated to be $217.55 per hour.141 The Commission also estimates that each
amended Proposed Form SHO would be filed directly using a structured XML-based data language,
resulting in a corresponding additional burden of 2 hours of work by a programmer per amended
Proposed Form SHO filing.
 138 2 hours per filing x $270 per hour x 1,000 filings each month x 12 months = $6,480,000.
139 The estimate of 3.5% of Regulation SHO filers that are anticipated to file an amended Proposed Form SHO
is based on the frequency of recent filings of amended Form 13F. See Exchange Act Release No. 93518 (Nov. 4,
2021), 86 FR 64839, 64860-61 Table 5 Notes 7, 8, and 10 (Nov. 19, 2021) (estimating a total of 5,466 Form 13FHR filings, 1,535 Form 13F-NT filings, and 244 Form 13F amendment filings (244 ÷ 7,001 = 3.5%) and noting that
“[t]his estimate is based on the number of Form 13F amendments filed as of December 2019.”).
140 See Form SHO, Special Instructions at 4.
141 See supra note 131.
73
PRA Table 1:
Estimated Manager Burden and Costs Associated with Proposed Form SHO Reporting
Managers
(Monthly)
Proposed
Form SHO
Reports
Processed
and Filed
(Annual)
Hours
Needed to
Process and
File
Proposed
Form SHO
(Avg.)
Total Industry
Burden Hours
to Process and
File Proposed
Form SHO
(Annual)
 Wage
Rate
(Avg.)
Total
Industry
Cost
Burden
(Annual)
Proposed
Form SHO
Filings
1,000 12,000 20 240,000 $217.55 $52,212,000
Use of
Structured
XMLBased Data
Language
1,000 12,000 2 24,000 $270 $6,480,000
Amended
Proposed
Form SHO
Filings
35 420 20 8,400 $217.55 $1,827,420
Use of
Structured
XMLBased Data
Language
35 420 2 840 $270 $226,800
Total 273,240 $60,746,220
In addition to the costs associated with the reporting burden, the Commission believes that
Managers could incur an initial technology-related burden of 325 hours, at an hourly estimated wage rate
of $320.30,142 for an estimated total cost of $104,097.50 per Manager,
143 to update their current systems
to capture the required information, and automate and facilitate the completion and filing of Proposed
Form SHO. The Commission generally believes that the type of Managers that would trigger a Reporting

142 The Commission estimates that, of a total estimated burden of 325 hours, approximately 195 hours will
most likely be performed by compliance professionals and 130 hours will most likely be performed by programmers
working on system configuration and reporting automation. Of the work performed by compliance professionals, we
anticipate that it will be performed equally by a compliance manager at a cost of $316 per hour and a senior risk
management specialist at a cost of $365 per hour. Of the work performed by programmers, we anticipate that it will
be performed equally by a senior programmer at a cost of $334 per hour and a programmer analyst at a cost of $246
per hour. ((($316 per hour x 0.5) + ($365 per hour x 0.5)) x 195 hours) + ((($334 per hour x 0.5) + ($246 per hour x
0.5)) x 130 hours) ÷ 325 = $320.30.
143 325 initial technology-related burden hours x $320.30 per hour = $104,097.50.
74
Threshold would likely have sophisticated technologies and would be able to implement systems to help
automate the reporting requirements of Proposed Rule 13f-2. In particular, the estimate of 325 initial
technology-related burden hours for Managers filing Proposed Form SHO is based on the estimated initial
filing burden (325 hours) for large hedge fund advisers144 to fulfill proposed amendments to the reporting
requirements for Form PF,145 and is similar to the initial technological infrastructure-related burden (355
hours) for the proposed security-based swap position reporting requirements of proposed Rule 10B1(a).146 While Managers most likely have other existing reporting obligations, the Commission
recognizes that Managers may need to update their systems to ensure timely and accurate filing of the
specific information required under Proposed Form SHO.
PRA Table 2:
Estimated Manager Burden and Costs Associated with Proposed Form SHO Initial Technology
Projects
Managers with
Proposed Form
SHO
Reportable
Short Interest
Positions
Number of
Hours Needed
for Initial
Technology
Projects (Avg.)
Industry
Burden Hours
for Initial
Technology
Projects
 Wage
Rate
(Avg.)
Total Industry
Cost Burden
Proposed
Form SHO
Initial
Technology
Projects
1,000 325 325,000 $320.30 $104,097,500
In making its estimates for the population of Managers that may be required to file a Proposed
Form SHO, the Commission notes that its estimate may be over-inclusive of the number of Managers that
can reasonably be expected to be covered. This is highlighted by the estimate that only 346 Form SH
filers would have had to file a report if one of the proposed Reporting Thresholds for Proposed Form

144 See Amendments to Form PF to Require Current Reporting and Amend Reporting Requirements for Large
Private Equity Advisers and Large Liquidity Fund Advisers, Investment Act Release No. 5950 (Jan. 26, 2022), 87
FR 9106 (Feb. 17, 2022) (The Commission recognizes that Proposed Rule 13f-2 would cover persons other than
large hedge fund advisers, and that large hedge fund advisers may generally be more accustomed to existing
Commission reporting requirements than some other persons that would be covered by Proposed Rule 13f-2.).
145 See id. at 9140 Table 2.
146 See Exchange Act Release No. 93784 (Dec. 15, 2021), 87 FR 6652, 6678 (Feb. 4, 2022).
75
SHO – $10 million or 2.5% of outstanding shares – were to be applied.147 However, Form SH
represented a narrower population of potential filers (e.g., only those that exercise investment discretion
with respect to accounts holding Section 13(f) securities having an aggregate fair market value of at least
$100 million) than prospective Proposed Form SHO filers. Form SH also applied to a narrower
population of securities, 13(f) securities, than Proposed Form SHO, which is proposed to apply more
broadly to all equity securities.
148 Additionally, Proposed Rule 13f-2 will include a second Reporting
Threshold (Threshold B) that applies to short positions in non-reporting company issuers, which could
result in additional Managers having to file a Proposed Form SHO. The number of Managers with
accounts containing short positions big enough to trigger either of the proposed threshold prongs for
Proposed Form SHO may have increased in the thirteen years since Form SH was implemented,
particularly if overall shorting activity has increased. The Commission also recognizes that technological
innovation and automation can change quickly, providing for new opportunities to streamline processes
and reduce both initial and ongoing burdens and costs. Thus, the Commission seeks specific comment as
to whether the proposed burden estimates are appropriate or whether such estimates should be increased
or reduced. The Commission invites comment on the estimated number of Managers anticipated to be
required to file a Proposed Form SHO each month (1,000), the estimated time burden (20 hours) of
preparing and filing each required Proposed Form SHO, and the estimated initial time burden (325 hours)
for Managers to update their systems and technology to facilitate the filing of Proposed Form SHO. The
Commission also invites comment on the estimated number of Managers that will file Proposed Form
SHO each month directly in Proposed Form SHO-specific XML (1,000), the estimated associated
additional burden (2 hours of work by a programmer) for each filing, and whether the burden is more
accurately categorized as an ongoing per filing burden or an initial, one-time technological systems
update burden. If those estimates or any other element of Proposed Rule 13f-2 and Proposed Form SHO
burdens or costs should be increased or decreased, please address by how much and why.
 147 See supra Part III.D.2 Table I, Panel B.
148 See supra Part III.A discussing equity securities subject to requirements of Regulation SHO.
76
C. Burdens for Broker-Dealers Under Proposed Rule 205
1. Applicable Respondents
As discussed above, Proposed Rule 205 would add a new “buy to cover” marking requirement for
a broker-dealer effecting a purchase order for its own account or on behalf of another person, wherein the
account has a gross short position in the security being purchased. Proposed Rule 205 would require that,
regardless of the size of such purchase for such account, the broker-dealer mark the purchase “buy to
cover.” All broker-dealers whose accounts or whose customers’ accounts at the broker-dealer could hold
a short position are potentially subject to the requirements of Proposed Rule 205. As of December 31,
2020, there were 3,551 broker-dealers registered with the Commission.149 The Commission estimates
that of the 3,551 registered broker-dealers, 1,218 place orders that would require a “buy to cover” order
mark.
150
2. Burdens and Costs
For purposes of the PRA, the Commission staff estimates that a total of approximately 62.25
billion “buy to cover” orders would be entered annually.151 This would make for an average of
approximately 51.1 million annual “buy to cover” order marks by each broker-dealer anticipated to
require a “buy to cover” order mark.
152 Each instance of marking an order “buy to cover” is estimated to
take between approximately .00001158 and .000139 hours (.042 and .5 seconds) to complete.153 This
 149 This estimate is derived from broker-dealer FOCUS filings as of December 31, 2020.
150 This estimate is derived from an analysis conducted by Commission staff of CAT data indicating that 1,218
broker-dealers would have been required to mark an order “buy to cover” in November 2021. The Commission
further estimates that a month-long period is likely to capture all broker-dealers to which the marking requirement of
Proposed Rule 205 would apply.
151 Our estimate of 62.25 billion annual “buy to cover” orders was calculated based on a staff review of short
sale trades, comprised of trades marked “short” and “short exempt” during the five years from 2016 through 2020.
Based on a review of Rule 605 reports from the three largest market centers during August 2008, we have
previously estimated a ratio of 14.4 orders to each completed trade. We gross up our 4.3 billion estimate of average
annual short sale trades from 2016 to 2020 by 14.4, which yields 62.25 billion average annual short sale orders. A
similar review of Rule 605 reports from large market centers has not been performed since the August 2008 period.
The ratio of short sale orders to completed trades may have increased or decreased since that time.
152 This figure was calculated as follows: 62.25 billion “buy to cover” orders divided by 1,218 broker-dealers
anticipated to place orders requiring the “buy to cover” order mark.
153 The upper end of this estimate – .5 seconds – is based on the same time estimate for marking sell orders
“long” or “short” under Rule 200(g) of Regulation SHO. See Regulation SHO Adopting Release, supra note 4, at
48023. See also, Exchange Act Release No. 48709 (Oct. 28, 2003) 68 FR 62972, 63000 n. 232 (Nov. 6, 2003);
Exchange Act Release No. 59748 (Apr. 10, 2009), 74 FR 18042, 18089 (Apr. 20, 2009) (providing the same
77
estimate is based on a number of factors, including: previously estimated burdens for the current marking
requirements of Rule 200(g) of Regulation SHO requiring broker-dealers to mark sell orders “long,”
“short,” or “short exempt”; broker-dealers should already have the necessary mechanisms and procedures
in place and already be familiar with processes and procedures to comply with the marking requirements
of Rule 200(g) of Regulation SHO; broker-dealers should be able to continue to use the same or similar
mechanisms, processes and procedures to comply with Proposed Rule 205; and that computing speeds
have significantly improved since the initial order marking burdens of Rule 200(g) of Regulation SHO
were initially estimated.
PRA Table 3:
Estimated Broker-Dealer Burden Associated with “Buy to Cover” Order Marking
Broker-Dealers
that may
“Buy to Cover”
Annual “Buy
to Cover”
Orders
Burden Hours
per “Buy to
Cover” Order
Total Annual
Industry
Burden Hours
Annual
Burden Per
Broker-Dealer
“Buy to
Cover”
Order
Marking

1,218 62.25 billion
.00001158
(.042 seconds)
to
.000139
(.5 seconds)
721,000
to
8,652,750
592
to
7,104
In addition to the burden and costs associated with the marking of individual “buy to cover”
orders, the Commission believes that broker-dealers required to mark “buy to cover” will incur initial,
one-time technology project costs to update their existing order marking systems. The Commission
believes that the implementation cost of the “buy to cover” marking requirement will likely be similar to
the implementation cost of the “short exempt” order marking requirements of Rule 200(g) of Regulation
SHO.154 The initial implementation cost of the “short exempt” order marking requirement was estimated
to be approximately $115,000 to $145,000 per broker-dealer. Taking the average of that range and

estimate – .5 seconds – for marking sell orders “short exempt” under Rule 200(g) of Regulation SHO). The lower
end of this estimate – .042 seconds – is based on a Commission estimate that computing speeds are twelve times
faster today than they were in 2007. See infra note 312.
154 See Exchange Act Release No. 61595 (Feb. 26, 2010), 75 FR 11232, 11287 (Mar. 10, 2010), basing its cost
estimates for the implementation of “short exempt” order marking on the estimates contained in Regulation SHO
Adopting Release, supra note 4, at 48023, which based its cost estimates on input from industry sources.
78
updating it for inflation results in an approximate one-time cost of $170,000 per broker-dealer,
155 and a
total initial combined implementation cost of approximately $207,060,000 for all broker-dealers that are
estimated to “buy to cover.”156
PRA Table 4:
Estimated Broker-Dealer Costs Associated with Initial “Buy to Cover” Order Marking System Updates
Broker-Dealers that
may “Buy to Cover”
Estimated Initial
Technology Cost to Update
Order Marking Systems
Total Initial Costs
to all BrokerDealers
“Buy to Cover”
Initial System
Updates
1,218 $170,000 $207,060,000
In making its estimate of annual “buy to cover” orders, the Commission notes that its estimate
may be over-inclusive of the total number of purchase orders that can be reasonably expected to be
covered by Proposed Rule 205. As noted above, the estimate is based on the average annual orders
marked “short” and “short exempt” over a five year period – 2016 through 2020. Such data was used
based on the assumption that, over the course of a year, for every short position created by a “short” or
“short exempt” sale order, there will be an equal and opposite number of “buy to cover” purchase orders
placed in order to cover, and ultimately close out, those short positions. However, the Commission
recognizes that industry practices may differ in terms of how order marks are applied (e.g., whether
orders marked “short” are defaulted to in some instances where the seller may in fact be net long) and/or
how short positions are created (e.g., potentially with multiple, smaller orders over time) and covered
(e.g., potentially with fewer, larger orders). The Commission also requests comment on the 14.4 ratio of
orders to trades used to calculate the total number of anticipated “buy to cover” orders. The Commission
recognizes that the number of orders that result in a transaction may have materially changed since the

155 The adjustment for inflation was calculated using information in the Consumer Price Index, U.S.
Department of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics for February 2010 and November 2021.
156 This figure was calculated as follows: $170,000 implementation cost × 1,218 broker-dealers anticipated to
mark “buy to cover” = $207,060,000 industry-wide implementation cost.
79
August 2008 estimate based on a review of Rule 605 reports.157 The Commission also requests comment
on the estimated range of .042 to .5 seconds (.00001158 to .000139 hours) that it takes for a broker-dealer
to properly mark a purchase order for an account that holds a gross short position in the security being
purchased as “buy to cover.” The Commission also requests comment on the estimated cost of $170,000
per broker-dealer of initially adding the “buy to cover” mark to existing order marking systems, including
whether having existing order marking systems, potentially having previously updated such systems to
include a “short exempt” order mark, and significant advances in technology and automation may have
reduced the estimated costs from those described in 2003 and 2004.
158 Thus, the Commission seeks
specific comment as to whether the proposed burden estimates are appropriate or whether such estimates
should be increased or reduced. Among the other factors of these estimates, the Commission invites
comments on the estimated number of “buy to cover” orders anticipated to be placed by broker-dealers
each year (62.25 billion), the estimated ratio of orders per trade (14.4:1), the time required to accurately
mark a purchase order “buy to cover” (between .042 and .5 seconds), and the cost of updating existing
order marking systems to accommodate the “buy to cover” order mark ($170,000). If those estimates or
any other element of the estimated Proposed Rule 205 burdens should be increased or decreased, please
address by how much and why.
D. Burdens and Costs Associated with the Proposal to Amend CAT
1. Summary of Collections of Information
The Proposal to Amend CAT would amend the CAT NMS Plan to require Participants to update
their Compliance Rules to require reporting by Industry Members of the following information: (i) for the
original receipt or origination of an order to buy an equity security, whether such buy order is for an
equity security that is a “buy to cover” order as defined by Rule 205(a) of Regulation SHO (17 CFR
242.205(a)); and (ii) for the original receipt or origination of an order to sell an equity security, whether
 157 See supra note 151.
158 See supra note 154 and accompanying text.
80
the order is a short sale effected by a market maker in connection with bona-fide market making activities
in the security for which exception Rule 203(b)(2)(iii) of Regulation SHO is claimed.159
2. Proposed Use of Information
The Commission believes that requiring proposed reporting of certain short sale information to
the CAT would provide valuable information for the Commission and other regulators in investigations
and reconstruction of market events. Ready access to “buy to cover” information in the CAT would allow
regulators to determine whether a purchase or sale of an equity security increases or decreases equity
exposure of an Industry Member or Customer, and whether the buy covers a short position. The ability to
determine whether an order adds to an existing position or covers an existing short position would be
useful in detecting and investigating portfolio pumping, short selling abuses, short squeezes marking the
close, potential manipulation, insider trading, or other rule violations. It would also assist Commission
staff and regulatory staff analysis of the impact of “buys to cover” on equity prices and price volatility,
and determine the impact of “short squeezes.” The Commission believes that requiring Industry
Members to identify short sales for which they are claiming the bona fide market making exception would
provide the Commission staff and other regulators an additional tool to determine whether such activity
qualifies for the exception, or instead is indicative of, for example, proprietary trading instead of bona
fide market making.
3. Respondents
a. National Securities Exchanges and National Securities Associations
The respondents to certain proposed collections of information for the Proposal to Amend CAT
would be the 25 Plan Participants (the 24 national securities exchanges and one national securities
association (FINRA)).
160
 159 See supra Part VI; see also proposed CAT NMS Plan Sections 6.4(d)(ii)(D) and 6.4(d)(ii)(E).
160 The Participants are: BOX Options Exchange LLC; Cboe BZX Exchange, Inc.; Cboe BYX Exchange, Inc.;
Cboe C2 Exchange, Inc.; Cboe EDGA Exchange, Inc.; Cboe EDGX, Inc.; Cboe Exchange, Inc.; Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority, Inc.; Investors Exchange Inc.; Long-Term Stock Exchange, Inc.; MEMX, LLC; Miami
International Securities Exchange LLC; MIAX PEARL, LLC; MIAX Emerald, LLC; NASDAQ BX, Inc.;
NASDAQ GEMX, LLC; NASDAQ ISE, LLC; NASDAQ MRX, LLC; NASDAQ PHLX LLC; The NASDAQ
Stock Market LLC; New York Stock Exchange LLC; NYSE MKT LLC; and NYSE Arca, Inc., NYSE Chicago
Stock Exchange, Inc., NYSE National, Inc.
81
b. Members of National Securities Exchanges and National Securities
Associations
The respondents for certain information collection for the Proposal to Amend CAT are the
Participants’ broker-dealer members, that is, Industry Members. The Commission understands that there
are currently 3,551 broker-dealers;161 however, not all broker-dealers are expected to have new CAT
reporting obligations under the Proposal to Amend CAT.162 Based on an analysis of CAT data from
November 2021, conducted by Commission staff, the Commission estimates that approximately 1,218
broker-dealers will be affected by the Proposal to Amend CAT, including 1,218 broker-dealers that would
be required to report “buy-to-cover” information on buy orders for equity securities and 104 brokerdealers that would be required to report for the original receipt or origination of an order to sell an equity
security whether the order is a short sale effected by a market maker in connection with bona-fide market
making activities in the security for which the exception in Rule 203(b)(2)(iii) of Regulation SHO is
claimed.
4. Total Initial and Annual Reporting and Recordkeeping Burdens
The Commission’s total burden estimates in this Paperwork Reduction Act section reflect the
total burden on all Participants and Industry Members. The burden estimates per Participant or Industry
Member are intended to reflect the average paperwork burden for each Participant or Industry Member,
but some Participants or Industry Members may experience more burden than the Commission’s
estimates, while others may experience less. The burden figures set forth in this section are the based on
a variety of sources, including Commission staff’s experience with the development of the CAT and
estimated burdens for other rulemakings. Because the CAT NMS Plan applies to and obligates the
Participants and not the Plan Processor, the Commission believes it is appropriate to estimate the
Participants’ external cost burden based on the estimated Plan Processor staff hours required to comply
with the proposed obligations.163 Put another way, pursuant to the proposed amendments to the CAT
 161 See supra note 149.
162 See also supra Part VI.B.2.
163 The Commission derives estimated costs associated with Plan Processor and Industry Member staff time
based on per hour figures from SIFMA’s Management & Professional Earnings in the Securities Industry 2013,
82
NMS Plan the Participants will be obligated to make changes to the CAT, but the CAT is managed by the
Plan Processor pursuant to contractual agreement, and so the Participants will be required to engage the
Plan Processor to make any required changes.
a. Participant Burdens
The Proposal to Amend CAT would require the Participants to engage the Plan Processor to
modify the Central Repository to accept and process the new short sale data elements on order receipt and
origination reports. The Commission estimates that the Participants would incur an initial, one-time
burden of 130 hours, or 5 hours per Participant, of staff time required to supervise and implement the
changes necessary for the Plan Processor to accept and process the new data elements, and an external
cost of $101,520, or a per Participant expense of approximately $4,060.80 to compensate the Plan
Processor for staff time required to make the initial necessary programming and systems changes to
accept and process the new data elements, based on a preliminary estimate that it would take 300 hours of
Plan Processor staff time to implement these changes.164
The Commission believes that other Paperwork Reduction Act burdens that would apply to the
Participants, including ongoing burdens and external expenses for the Plan Processor’s acceptance and
processing of the new data elements, are already accounted for in the existing Paperwork Reduction Act
estimate that applies for Rule 613 and the CAT NMS Plan Approval Order, submitted under OMB
number 3235-0671.165 The Commission believes that the prior Paperwork Reduction Act analysis
incorporates any other potential Paperwork Reduction Act burdens for the Participants because the
existing Paperwork Reduction Act analysis accounts for initial and ongoing costs for, among other things,

modified by Commission staff to account for an 1800-hour work-year, and multiplied by 5.35 to account for
bonuses, firm size, employee benefits and overhead, and adjusted for inflation based on Bureau of Labor Statistics
data on CPI-U between January 2013 and January 2020 (a factor of 1.12). For example, the 2020 inflation-adjusted
effective hourly wage rate for attorneys is estimated at $426 ($380 × 1.12).
164 The estimated 300 hours of Plan Processor staff time include 200 hours by a Senior Programmer, 40 hours
by a Senior Database Administrator, 40 hours for a Senior Business Analyst and 20 hours for an Attorney. The
Commission estimates that the initial, one-time external expense for Participants will be $101,520 = (Senior
Programmer for 200 hours at $339 an hour = $67,800) + (Senior Database Administrator for 40 hours at $349 an
hour = $13,960) + (Senior Business Analyst for 40 hours at $281 an hour = $11,240) + (Attorney for 20 hours at
$426 an hour = $8,520).
165 See CAT NMS Plan Approval Order, 81 FR at 84911-43. See also OMB Control No. 3235-0671, 85 FR
37721 (June 23, 2020) (notice of submission of request for approval of extension).
83
operating and maintaining the Central Repository, including the cost of systems and connectivity
upgrades or changes necessary to receive and consolidate the reported order and execution information
from Participants and their members, the cost to store data and make it available to regulators, the cost of
monitoring the required validation parameters, and management of the Central Repository.
166 In addition,
the Commission anticipates that each exchange and national securities association would file one Form
19b–4 filing to implement updated Compliance Rules. While such filings may impose certain costs on
the exchanges, those burdens are already accounted for in the comprehensive Paperwork Reduction Act
Information Collection submission for Form 19b-4.167 The Commission does not expect the baseline
number of 19b-4 filings to increase as a result of the Proposal to Amend CAT, nor does it believe that the
incremental costs exceed those costs used to arrive at the average costs and/or burdens reflected in the
Form 19b–4 PRA submission.
b. Broker-Dealer Burdens
The Commission believes that certain Industry Members will have initial, one-time burdens and
costs relating to the Proposal to Amend CAT, to update systems and processes as necessary to capture and
report the proposed data elements to CAT. The Commission has estimated these initial burdens and costs
below.
The Commission also believes that the Proposal to Amend CAT would impose an ongoing annual
burden relating to, among other things, personnel time to monitor each broker-dealer’s reporting of the
required data and the maintenance of the systems to report the required data, and implementing changes
to trading systems that might result in additional reports to the Central Repository. However, the
Commission believes that the ongoing burden imposed by the Proposal to Amend CAT related to
reporting to the CAT is already accounted for in the existing information collections burdens associated
with Rule 613 and the CAT NMS Plan Approval Order submitted under OMB number 3235-0671.168
 166 See CAT NMS Plan Approval Order, 81 FR at 84918.
167 See OMB Control No. 3235–0045 (August 19, 2016), 81 FR 57946 (August 24, 2016) (Request to OMB
for Extension of Rule 19b–4 and Form 19b–4 PRA).
168 See CAT NMS Plan Approval Order, 81 FR at 84911-43.
84
Specifically, the CAT NMS Plan Approval Order takes into account requirements on broker-dealer
members to comply with the CAT NMS Plan, including the requirement to maintain the systems
necessary to collect and transmit information to the Central Repository,169 provides aggregate burden hour
and external cost estimates for the broker-dealer data collection and reporting requirement of Rule 613,
and did not quantify the burden hours or external cost estimates for each individual component
comprising the broker-dealer’s data collection and reporting responsibility.
170 The Proposal to Amend
CAT would not require any Industry Member to submit new reports to the CAT, but to add limited
additional information to existing reports in certain circumstances for certain Industry Members. The
Commission does not believe that this would alter the estimates of ongoing burden and external costs in
the existing Paperwork Reduction Act Analysis and the ongoing burden associated with these new
collection requirements are accounted for in the existing Paperwork Reduction Act Analysis.
Buy to Cover Information on Orders
With regard to the obligation to report “buy to cover” information on orders to the CAT, the
Commission believes that it is appropriate to divide the 1,218 Industry Members that would be required to
report buy to cover information to the CAT for the original receipt or origination of orders into two
categories: (i) Industry Members that report directly to the CAT (“insourcing Industry Members”); and
(ii) Industry Members that use third-party reporting agents such as service bureaus for CAT reporting
(“outsourcing Industry Members”). For purposes of this Paperwork Reduction Act analysis, the
Commission estimates that of the 1,218 Industry Members that would be required to report buy to cover
information to the CAT for the original receipt or origination of orders, 126 would be insourcing Industry
Members, and 1,092 would be outsourcing Industry Members. This is based on the CAT NMS Approval
Order, which based on an analysis of specific data provided by FINRA on how firms report OATS data
estimated that there were 126 large OATS171 reporting broker-dealers, with all other broker-dealers either

169 See, e.g., CAT NMS Plan Approval Order, 81 FR at 84930.
170 See CAT NMS Plan Approval Order, 81 FR at 84930.
171 OATS was FINRA’s Order Audit Trail System, which existed prior to the creation of the CAT and was an
order audit trail system maintained by FINRA, was retired on September 1, 2021 because FINRA determined that
the accuracy and reliability of the CAT met certain standards and thus OATS was duplicative in light of the
implementation of CAT. See Exchange Act Notice No. 92239 (June 23, 2021), 86 FR 34293 (June 29, 2021).
85
not reporting to CAT at the time or reporting to OATS through service bureaus.172 The Commission
believes it is reasonable to estimate for purposes of this Paperwork Reduction Act analysis that the same
number of broker-dealers that reported directly to OATS report directly to CAT, and that it unlikely that
previously outsourcing broker-dealers and broker-dealers without an obligation to report to OATS
developed the infrastructure necessary to report to the CAT.
The Commission estimates that the 126 insourcing Industry Members will incur an initial,
aggregate, one-time burden of 32,760 hours, or that each of these insourcing Industry Members would
incur an initial, average one-time burden of 260 hours, and that these 126 insourcing Industry Members
will incur an initial, aggregate, one-time external expense of approximately $1,890,000 for software and
hardware to facilitate reporting of the new data elements to CAT, or that each insourcing Industry
Member would incur an initial, average one-time external expense of approximately $15,000 for
hardware and software to facilitate reporting of the new data elements to CAT.
173
The Commission estimates that the 1,092 outsourcing Industry Members will incur an initial,
aggregate, one-time burden of 10,920 hours, or that each of these outsourcing Industry Members would
incur an initial, one-time burden of 10 hours on average, and that together these 1,092 outsourcing
Industry Members will incur an initial, aggregate, one-time external expense of approximately $1,092,000
for software and hardware to facilitate reporting of the new data elements to CAT and for external
expenses relating to fees paid to CAT reporting agents to update their systems or coding as necessary, or
that each outsourcing Industry Member would incur an initial, average one-time external expense of
approximately $1,000.174
 172 See CAT NMS Plan Approval Order, 81 FR at 84860.
173 The Commission is basing this figure on the estimated internal burden for a broker-dealer that handles
orders subject to customer specific disclosures required by Rule 606(b)(3) to both update its data capture systems inhouse and format the report required by Rule 606. See Exchange Act Release No. 84528 (November 2, 2018), 83
FR 58338, 58383 (November 19, 2018) (“Rule 606 Adopting Release”). The Commission believes that this is a
reasonable proxy for a preliminary estimation for the burdens and costs associated with updating data capture
systems for reporting purposes here because in both rulemakings broker-dealers were required to update in-house
data reported for pre-existing reporting obligations, and, as discussed above, the Paperwork Reduction Act analysis
for Rule 613 and the CAT NMS Plan did not attempt to quantify the burden hours or external cost estimates for each
individual component comprising the broker-dealer’s data collection and reporting responsibility. See supra note
169.
174 The Commission believes that the preliminary estimated burden and external costs for outsourcing Industry
Members is reasonable because the burden on individual Industry Members should be significantly lower than
86
As discussed above, the Commission does not believe that these CAT Reporters would have an
ongoing PRA burden or external costs related to the reporting of the new information to CAT because the
ongoing burden and external costs are already accounted for in the existing information collections
burdens associated with Rule 613 and the CAT NMS Plan Approval Order submitted under OMB number
3235-0671.175
Bona Fide Market Making Exception Information
The Commission believes that this aspect of the Proposal to Amend CAT will only impose
additional burdens on Industry Members that trade equity securities and rely upon or plan to rely upon the
bona fide market making exception. Based on an analysis of data reported to the CAT in November
2021, and specifically the identification of all unique CAT Reporters that were identified as equity market
makers (including different classes of market makers such as “designated” or “lead” market makers, and
secondary liquidity providers), the Commission believes that approximately 104 CAT Reporters will be
subject to the new reporting obligation. The Commission believes that some broker-dealers that rely upon
this exception may retain records regarding their eligibility for this exception for specific orders or for
orders originated by specific desks or units of their business, and thus for some broker-dealers this
information could be more easily reportable than information not currently available to Industry
Members, such as the “buy to cover” identification of equity buy orders.
With regard to the obligation to report regarding bona fide market making exception information
to the CAT, the Commission believes that it is appropriate to divide the 104 Industry Members that would
be required to report this information into two categories: (i) Industry Members that report directly to the
CAT; and (ii) Industry Members that use third-party reporting agents for CAT reporting. For purposes of
this Paperwork Reduction Act analysis, the Commission estimates that of the 104 Industry Members that

insourcing Industry Members because of the difference in how these firms report to the CAT. Outsourcing Industry
Members will not be required to change internal CAT reporting systems, but instead would have to be responsible
for making any updates necessary for CAT reporting agents to report this information to the CAT. The outsourcing
Industry Members will have external costs associated with paying CAT reporting agents for any additional fees
relating to the change, but because CAT reporting agents can report on behalf of numerous outsourcing Industry
Members at the same time, the costs of any updates to their systems can be distributed amongst outsourcing Industry
Members.
175 See supra note 165.
87
would be required to this information, 60 Industry Members would be reporting this information directly
to the CAT, and 44 Industry Members would be reporting this information through third-party reporting
agents. The Commission believes this is a reasonable estimation because it believes that the majority of
Industry Members that are identified as market makers in the CAT are large enough to have developed
their own systems and technology to report directly to the CAT.
The Commission estimates that the 60 insourcing Industry Members that report directly to the
CAT will incur an initial, aggregate, one-time burden of 15,600 hours, or that each of these CAT
Reporters would incur an initial, average one-time burden of 260 hours, and that each of these 60
insourcing Industry Members will incur an initial, aggregate, one-time external expense of approximately
$900,000 for software and hardware to facilitate reporting of the new data elements to CAT, or that each
insourcing Industry Member would incur an initial, average one-time external expense of approximately
$15,000.176
The Commission estimates that the 44 outsourcing Industry Members that use third-party
reporting agents to report to the CAT will incur an initial, aggregate, one-time burden of 440 hours, or
that each of these outsourcing Industry Members would incur an initial, one-time burden of 10 hours on
average, and that these 44 outsourcing Industry Members will incur an initial, aggregate, one-time
external expense of approximately $44,000 for software and hardware to facilitate reporting of the new
data elements to CAT, or that each outsourcing Industry Member would incur an initial, average one-time
external expense of approximately $1,000.177
 176 The Commission is basing this figure on the estimated burden and external costs for a broker-dealer that
handles orders subject to customer specific disclosures required by Rule 606(b)(3) to update their systems to capture
the data and produce a report to comply with Rule 606. See Rule 606 Adopting Release, 83 FR at 58383. The
Commission believes that this is a reasonable proxy for a preliminary estimation for the burdens and costs associated
with updating data capture systems for reporting purposes here because in both rulemakings broker-dealers were
required to update in-house data reported for pre-existing reporting obligations.
177 The Commission believes that the preliminary estimated burden and external costs for outsourcing Industry
Members is reasonable because the burden on individual Industry Members should be significantly lower than
insourcing Industry Members because of the difference in how these firms report to the CAT. Outsourcing Industry
Members will not be required to change internal CAT reporting systems, but instead would have to be responsible
for making any updates necessary for CAT reporting agents to report this information to the CAT. The outsourcing
Industry Members will have external costs associated with paying CAT reporting agents for any additional fees
relating to the change, but because CAT reporting agents can report on behalf of numerous outsourcing Industry
Members at the same time, the costs of any updates to their systems can be distributed amongst outsourcing Industry
Members.
88
As discussed above, the Commission believes that the ongoing burden associated with reporting
to the CAT is already accounted for in the existing information collections burdens associated with Rule
613 and the CAT NMS Plan Approval Order submitted under OMB number 3235-0671.178 Because this
information is already collected and maintained by market makers that engage in equity trading and claim
the exception pursuant to Rule 17a-3 of the Exchange Act, the Commission believes there is no new
ongoing burden associated with collecting or recording the information necessary to effectuate CAT
reporting of this new element.
c. Summary of Initial One-Time Burdens Relating to Proposal to Amend CAT
Name of
Information
Collection
Type of
Burden
Number
of
Entities
Impacted
Initial
One-Time
Hourly
Burden
Aggregate
One-Time
Hourly
Burden
Initial OneTime Cost
Aggregate
One-Time
Cost
CAT: Central
Repository - Short
Sale Data
Recordkeeping 25 5 130 $4,060.80 $101,520
CAT: Reporting of
Buy to cover
Information for
Orders – Insourcers
Third Party
Disclosure 126 260 32,760 $15,000 $1,890,000
CAT: Reporting of
Buy to cover
Information for
Orders –
Outsourcers
Third Party
Disclosure 1,092 10 10,920 $1,000 $1,092,000
CAT: Reporting of
Bona Fide Market
Making Exception –
Insourcers
Third Party
Disclosure 60 260 15,600 $15,000 $900,000
CAT: Reporting of
Bona Fide Market
Making Exception –
Outsourcers
Third Party
Disclosure 44 10 440 $1,000 $44,000
E. Collection of Information is Mandatory
The proposed information collections are required under Proposed Rule 13f-2 and Proposed Form
SHO for Managers that meet one of the Reporting Thresholds, Proposed Rule 205 for broker-dealers that
effect purchase orders for accounts with open short positions in the equity securities being purchased, and
the Proposal to Amend CAT for Plan Participants to collect and process new CAT reportable information
and for CAT Industry Members that engage in certain short sale activity.

178 See supra note 165.
89
F. Confidentiality
As discussed above, Proposed Rule 13f-2 would require certain Managers to file monthly in
EDGAR, on Proposed Form SHO, certain short sale volume data and short interest position data.
However, the Commission is proposing that the information reported by Managers on Proposed Form
SHO be aggregated prior to publication so as to protect the identity of reporting Managers.
The Commission would not typically receive confidential information as a result of Proposed
Rule 205. To the extent that the Commission receives—through its examination and oversight program,
through an investigation, or by some other means— records or disclosures from a broker-dealer that relate
to or arise from Proposed Rule 205 that are not publicly available, such information would be kept
confidential, subject to the provisions of applicable law.
With respect to the Proposal to Amend CAT, Rule 613 and the CAT NMS Plan requires that the
information to be collected and electronically provided to the Central Repository would only be available
to the national securities exchanges, national securities association, and the Commission. Further, the
CAT NMS Plan includes policies and procedures designed to ensure the security and confidentiality of all
information submitted to the Central Repository, and to ensure that all SROs and their employees, as well
as all employees of the Central Repository, shall use appropriate safeguards to ensure the confidentiality
of such data. The Commission would receive confidential information pursuant to this collection of
information, and such information will be kept confidential, subject to the provisions of applicable law.
G. Request for Comments
The Commission requests comment on whether the estimates for burden hours and costs are
reasonable. Pursuant to 44 U.S.C. 3506(c)(2)(B), the Commission solicits comments to (1) evaluate
whether the proposed collections of information are necessary for the proper performance of the functions
of the Commission, including whether the information would have practical utility; (2) evaluate the
accuracy of the Commission’s estimate of the burden of the proposed collections of information; (3)
determine whether there are ways to enhance the quality, utility, and clarity of the information to be
collected; and (4) determine whether there are ways to minimize the burden of the collections of
90
information on those who are to respond, including through the use of automated collection techniques or
other forms of information technology.
While the Commission welcomes any public input on this topic, the Commission asks commenters to
consider the following questions:
• Q20: Has the Commission accurately estimated the paperwork burdens and costs to Managers
associated with fulfilling the reporting requirements of Proposed Rule 13f-2?
• Q21: Has the Commission accurately estimated the number of Managers (1,000) anticipated to
be required to file Proposed Form SHO each month? If the estimate should be increased or
decreased, please address by how much and why.
• Q22: Has the Commission accurately estimated the amount of time (325 hours) needed for
Managers to complete initial technology projects to facilitate fulfillment of the reporting
requirements of Proposed Rule 13f-2? If the estimate should be increased or decreased, please
address by how much and why.
• Q23: Has the Commission accurately estimated the number of Managers each month (1,000) that
will use a structured XML data language methodology, as opposed to the web-fillable Proposed
Form SHO directly on EDGAR, to file Proposed Form SHO? Has the Commission accurately
estimated the number for Managers each month (35) that will use a structured XML data
language methodology to file an amended Proposed Form SHO?
• Q24: Has the Commission accurately estimated the additional paperwork burden (2 hours of work
by a programmer) for Managers to file a Proposed Form SHO via the structured XML data
language methodology? Is the additional burden (2 hours of work by a programmer) more
accurately categorized as an ongoing per filing burden or an initial, one-time technological
systems update burden?
• Q25: Has the Commission accurately estimated that approximately 3.5% of Proposed Form SHO
filers would also file an amended Proposed Form SHO, resulting in additional burdens and costs
for an estimated 35 Managers each month?
91
• Q26: Has the Commission accurately estimated the paperwork burdens and costs to
broker-dealers associated with fulfilling the order marking requirements of Proposed Rule 205?
Has the Commission accurately estimated the number of broker-dealers (1,218) that will be
required to update their order marking systems to incorporate the “buy to cover” order mark?
• Q27: Has the Commission accurately estimated the total number of orders marked “buy to
cover” by broker-dealers each year (62.25 billion)? If the estimate should be increased or
decreased, please address by how much and why.
• Q28: Is the Commission’s estimation that, over the course of a year, for every short position
created by a “short” or “short exempt” sale order, there will be an equal and opposite number of
“buy to cover” purchase orders placed in order to cover, and ultimately close out, those short
positions, an accurate projection of how frequently “buy to cover” order marks will be used? If
there is a more accurate means of estimating the volume of anticipated annual “buy to cover”
order marks, please describe its structure and why it is more accurate.
• Q29: Has the Commission accurately estimated the ratio of orders to trades (14.4:1) used to
calculate the total number of anticipated “buy to cover” orders? If the estimate should be
increased or decreased, please address by how much and why.
• Q30: Has the Commission accurately estimated the time it takes (between .042 and .5 seconds)
for a broker-dealer to properly mark a purchase order as “buy to cover” for an account that holds
a gross short position in the security being purchased? If the estimate should be increased or
decreased, or the range narrowed, please address by how much and why.
• Q31: Has the Commission accurately estimated the cost to broker-dealers ($170,000) to update
their order marking systems, or is such a cost likely to have decreased for reasons including
technological advances? If the estimate should be increased or decreased, please address by how
much and why.
• Q32: Has the Commission accurately captured the market participants who would be subject to
the burdens and costs under the Proposal to Amend CAT?
92
• Q33: Has the Commission accurately estimated the number of Industry Members anticipated to
be required to report new information to the CAT under the Proposal to Amend CAT?
• Q34: Has the Commission accurately estimated the paperwork burdens and costs to market
participants associated with the Proposal to Amend CAT?
Persons wishing to submit comments on the collection of information requirements should direct
the comments to the Office of Management and Budget, Attention: Desk Officer for the Securities and
Exchange Commission, Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, Washington, D.C. 20503, and send
a copy to Vanessa Countryman, Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 100 F Street, NE,
Washington, D.C. 20549-1090, with reference to File No. S7-08-22. OMB is required to make a decision
concerning the collection of information between 30 and 60 days after publication of this release.
Consequently, a comment to OMB is best assured of having its full effect if OMB receives it within 30
days of publication. Requests for materials submitted to OMB by the Commission with regard to these
collections of information should be in writing, refer to File No. S7-08-22, and be submitted to the
Securities and Exchange Commission, Office of FOIA Services, 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C.
20549-2736.
VIII. Economic Analysis
A. Introduction
The Commission is proposing new reporting requirements in connection with short sales. The
Commission is mindful of the economic effects that may result from the proposed requirements, including
the benefits, costs, and the effects on efficiency, competition, and capital formation.179 The Commission
believes that, if adopted, Proposed Rule 13f-2 and Proposed Form SHO, Proposed Rule 205, and the
Proposal to Amend CAT would result in improved regulatory oversight, as the data that would become
 179 Exchange Act Section 3(f) requires the Commission, when it is engaged in rulemaking pursuant to the
Exchange Act and is required to consider or determine whether an action is necessary or appropriate in the public
interest, to consider, in addition to the protection of investors, whether the action would promote efficiency,
competition, and capital formation. See 15 U.S.C. 78c(f). In addition, Exchange Act Section 23(a)(2) requires the
Commission, when making rules pursuant to the Exchange Act, to consider among other matters the impact that any
such rule would have on competition and not to adopt any rule that would impose a burden on competition that is
not necessary or appropriate in furtherance of the purposes of the Exchange Act. See 15 U.S.C. 78w(a)(2).
93
available to regulators would close informational gaps in the currently available data, which would in turn
benefit market participants and help foster fair and orderly markets. More specifically, the Proposals
would increase transparency and improve regulators’ examination of market behavior and recreation of
significant market events. These improvements may, in turn, discourage abusive short selling.
180
Proposed Rule 13f-2 would also increase transparency for market participants about short selling, which
could help refine market participants’ understanding of the level of negative sentiment and the actions of
short sellers.
The Proposals may also lead to tradeoffs in market quality. A reduction in abusive short selling
and improved regulatory oversight may have a positive impact on market quality. Furthermore, the
Proposals would provide market participants improved transparency into short selling which could also
improve price efficiency. However, Proposed Rule 13f-2 and Proposed Form SHO could chill short
selling by increasing the costs and risks of implementing large short positions, which could reduce the
positive effects of short selling on market quality. Furthermore, public disclosure of information resulting
from Proposed Rule 13f-2 and Proposed Form SHO could facilitate short squeezes, which could reduce
market quality for all.181
In addition to the indirect costs to market quality, Proposed Rule 13f-2, Proposed Form SHO,
Proposed Rule 205, and the Proposal to Amend CAT could impose significant compliance costs on
market participants. The proposal to require Managers to report large positions and activity would likely
impose significant initial and ongoing costs on Managers. Proposed Rule 205 and the Proposal to Amend
CAT could impose large initial costs and ongoing compliance costs on broker-dealers.
The Commission has considered the economic effects of the Proposals and wherever possible, the
Commission has quantified the likely economic effects of the Proposals. The Commission is providing
both a qualitative assessment and quantified estimates of the potential economic effects of the Proposals
 180 See infra Part VIII.D.1 (for additional discussion on potential abusive short selling practices).
181 See infra Part VIII.D.1. The Commission expects that for many securities, a limited number of Manager
positions may surpass the reporting requirement thresholds. Given the eventual public release of the aggregate
position sizes, there is a risk that other market participants will be able to potentially identify the Managers with
large short positions and orchestrate short squeeze efforts against them (should they seem vulnerable against a short
squeeze). Nevertheless, the Commission maintains the ability of identifying such behavior using CAT data, which
could mitigate initiation of such behavior.
94
where feasible. The Commission has incorporated data and other information to assist it in the analysis of
the economic effects of the Proposals. However, as explained in more detail below, because the
Commission does not have, and in certain cases does not believe it can reasonably obtain, data that may
inform the Commission on certain economic effects, the Commission is unable to quantify certain
economic effects. Further, even in cases where the Commission has some data, quantification is not
practicable due to the number and type of assumptions necessary to quantify certain economic effects,
which render any such quantification unreliable. Our inability to quantify certain costs, benefits, and
effects does not imply that the Commission believes such costs, benefits, or effects are less significant.
The Commission requests that commenters provide relevant data and information to assist the
Commission in quantifying the economic consequences of Proposed Rule 13f-2, Proposed Form SHO,
Proposed Rule 205, and Proposal to Amend CAT.
B. Economic Justification
The Commission is proposing the required Manager reporting and disclosures, in part, to
implement the specific statutory mandate of Section 929X of the Dodd-Frank Act. Accordingly, many of
the costs and benefits of Proposed Rule 13f-2 and Proposed Form SHO stem from the Commission’s
response to the statutory mandate. In addition, the Commission is exercising discretion in its design and
implementation of Proposed Rule 13f-2 and Proposed Form SHO, and recognizes that this discretion has
economic effects. Specifically, the Commission is using this discretion to ensure that the proposed
disclosures are additive to currently available data and would be useful to both market participants and
regulators, with a focus on addressing data limitations exposed by the market volatility in January 2021.
Finally, Proposed Rule 205 and Proposal to Amend CAT address such data limitations outside of the
context of the statutory mandate of Section 929X.
CAT data, as well as other currently available data, can be used by regulators for surveillance,
examinations, investigations, and other enforcement functions, for the analysis and reconstruction of
market events, and for more general market analysis and research. At times, these activities would benefit
from information on customer or market participant positions and how those positions change over time.
CAT was not designed to track such positions, and Staff experience in reconstructing the events of
95
January 2021 provided insights into the challenges of using existing CAT data for this purpose. Other
existing data sources, including public data sources, are also limited for these purposes and also for
informing members of the public and market participants. Specifically, current data (1) fails to distinguish
economic short exposure from hedged positions or intraday trading, (2) fails to distinguish the type of
trader short selling or identify individual short positions, even for regulatory use, and (3) fails to capture
the various ways that short positions can change and the various ways to acquire short exposure. The
Proposals are designed to address these data limitations.
Existing data sources fail to accurately represent the economic short exposures of Managers due
to several limitations. While existing data report aggregate short positions on a bi-monthly basis, they do
not reflect the timing with which short positions expand or shrink in the two-week period between the two
reporting dates.182 Some data sources report daily short sale volume183 without distinguishing short sale
transactions that affect economic short exposures from those meant for purposes such as liquidity
provision or hedging of long positions. As such, the existing short volume data may not be combined with
the bi-monthly short interest data to construct aggregate daily short positions. Existing securities lending
data that may be considered indirect measures of short interest are expensive, incomprehensive, and
biased – in particular, security loans may serve purposes other than covering short positions, e.g., cover
failure to deliver or borrowing cash by the lender. No existing data identify short positions by individual
traders. Even though some regulatory data identify short transactions of individual traders, they may not
be utilized to reconstruct short positions because economic short exposure may change in the absence of
any short sale transactions.
 182 FINRA requires all members to report settled short positions in equities of all customer and proprietary
accounts twice per month. According to the schedule it has adopted, FINRA publishes the short sale data about a
week after each reporting due date. See, e.g., Short Interest Reporting, available at https://www.finra.org/filingreporting/regulatory-filing-systems/short-interest.
183 FINRA reports daily off-exchange short sale volume data that aggregate, for each exchange-listed security,
short sale transactions reported to a FINRA TRF or ADF. See Short Sale Volume Data, FINRA, available at
https://www.finra.org/finra-data/browse-catalog/short-sale-volume-data. Registered exchanges also report daily
short sale volume aggregated at the security level, often charging a fee. See, e.g., TAQ Group Short Sales & Short
Volume, New York Stock Exchange, available at https://www.nyse.com/market-data/historical/taq-nyse-groupshort-sales.
96
These data limitations inhibit regulators from performing functions such as market surveillance
and market reconstruction. For example, the Commission would not have regular access to information
about Managers who hold large short positions even if those positions are held for a long period of time.
If the positions are sufficiently large and prices move against the positions, the Commission cannot
currently efficiently assess the risk that the positions impose on the market more broadly. Additionally,
with existing data the Commission may have difficulty reconstructing significant market events –
inhibiting the Commission in quickly understanding market events and providing efficient market
oversight.
The data limitations also prevent the market from more fulsome interpretations of existing short
selling information. For example, existing data can show a short interest level, but little is known about
how much of that short interest level is directional or hedged and the extent to which short positions
change between short interest disclosures.
C. Baseline
1. Institutional Investment Managers
The potential universe of persons who meet the definition of Manager is expansive. Exchange
Act Section 13(f)(6)(A) defines the term “institutional investment manager” as “includ[ing] any person,
other than a natural person, investing in or buying and selling securities for its own account, and any
person exercising investment discretion with respect to the account of any other person.”184 Exchange Act
Section 3(a)(9) states that “[t]he term ‘person’ means a natural person, company, government, or political
subdivision, agency, or instrumentality of a government.” “‘Company’ means a corporation, a
partnership, an association, a joint-stock company, a trust, a fund, or any organized group of persons
whether incorporated or not; or any receiver, trustee in a case under title 11 of the United States Code or
similar official or any liquidating agent for any of the foregoing, in his capacity as such.” 185 As a result,
Managers exercising discretion over the accounts of others could include but are not limited to investment
 184 See also Exchange Act Section 3(a)(35) defining when a person exercises “investment discretion” with
respect to an account.
185 See Section 2(a)(8) of the Investment Company Act. The term “company” in the Exchange Act “ha[s] the
same meaning[] as in the Investment Company Act of 1940.” Exchange Act Section 3(a)(19).
97
advisors exercising investment discretion over client assets, including investment company assets such as
mutual funds, ETFs, and closed-end funds; banks and bank trust corporations offering investment
management services; pension fund managers; corporations, including broker-dealers and insurance
companies, managing corporate or employee investment assets; and individuals exercising investment
discretion over the accounts of others. Also as a result of the definition of Manager, the set of Managers
excludes natural persons buying and selling securities only for their own account but does include natural
persons exercising discretion over the account of another person.186
Notwithstanding the broad statutory definition of Manager, it is the Commission’s understanding
that only a fraction of Managers of are believed to engage in short selling and fewer still engage in any
significant short selling. Market makers, for example, engage in short selling but, with the exception of
option market makers, generally do not hold large positions overnight. We are also aware, for example,
that advisers to both hedge funds and registered investment companies engage in short selling to varying
degrees. However, with the exception of hedge funds, institutional investors are viewed as “largely
absent” from the short selling portion of the financial markets.187 Using actual investment strategies
employed by registered investment companies188 as a proxy for the number of Managers in the public

186 To the extent that a natural person exercising discretion over the account of another person has a short
position exceeding the proposed thresholds, that natural person would be subject to the costs associated with
Proposed Rule 13f-2 and the Proposed Form SHO. We expect such a natural person would likely use the fillable
web form provided by EDGAR to input Proposed Form SHO disclosures. The Commission believes that few
Managers that are natural persons would be likely to have short positions large enough to exceed the threshold. See
infra Section VIII.D.7 for more information on Managers’ costs.
187 Peter Molk and Frank Partnoy, Institutional Investors as Short Sellers?, 99 B.U. L. REV. 837, 839 (2019),
available at https://scholarship.law.ufl.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1980&context=facultypub. Molk and
Partnoy’s paper “identif[ies] the regulatory and other barriers that keep key categories of institutions[, specifically,
mutual funds, insurance companies, banks, sovereign wealth funds, endowments, and foundations,] from acquiring
significant short positions.” Id. at 843.
188 As of July 2021, there were 10,223 mutual funds (excluding money market funds) with approximately
$18,588 billion in total net assets, 2,320 ETFs organized as an open-end fund or as a share-class of an open-end fund
with approximately $6,447 billion in total net assets, 736 registered closed-end funds with approximately $314
billion in total net assets, 722 unit investment trusts with approximately $2,456 billion in total net assets, and 13
variable annuity separate accounts registered as management investment companies on Form N-3 with $218 billion
in total net assets. Estimates of the number of registered investment companies and their total net assets are based
on an analysis of Form N-CEN filings as of July 31, 2021. For open-end management funds, closed-end funds, and
management company separate accounts, total net assets equals the sum of monthly average net assets across all
funds in the sample during the reporting period. See Item C.19.a (Form N-CEN). For UITs, we use the total assets
as of the end of the reporting period, and for UITs with missing total assets information, we use the aggregated
contract value for the reporting period instead. See Item F.11 and F.14.c in Form N-CEN.
98
fund markets engaged in short selling, the number of such Managers is likely to be relatively small. A
Division of Economic and Risk Analysis White Paper survey of all mutual fund Form N-SAR filings in
2014 found that “[w]hile 64% of all funds were allowed to engage in short selling, only 5% of all funds
actually did so.”189 As of September 2021, there were 7,043 registered investment companies with total
equity positions valued at approximately $17 trillion. Of those, 152 funds had short positions with a total
short position value of approximately $17.5 billion. Of the funds with short positions of approximately
$17.5 billion, only 37 funds held positions equal to or greater than $10 million.
190 Additionally, according
to an analysis of publicly available Form PF data, a substantial minority of single-strategy hedge funds
employ strategies involving short selling.191
While information about Managers’ investments other than from funds managed by investment
advisers is limited, the Commission understands that such other Managers, other than options market
makers due to their routine use of hedging transactions, do not frequently establish short positions that
would be large enough to be subject to the proposed rule’s reporting requirement.
192 The Commission
believes one possible proxy for the number of Managers that could potentially have a reporting obligation
 189 Daniel Deli et. al., Use Of Derivatives By Registered Investment Companies at 8, DERA White Paper
(2015), available at https://www.sec.gov/files/derivatives12-2015.pdf.
190 This is based on an analysis of data provided by registered investment companies to the Commission on
Form N-PORT.
191 As of 2021 Q2, there are 1,124 hedge funds out of 6,083 Single-Strategy hedge funds (excluding fund-offunds hedge funds) that employ short selling in an Equity Long/Short strategy (1,062), Equity Short-Biased strategy
(18), or Fixed Income Convertible Arbitrage strategy (44). Assets under management (AUM) in these types of
hedge funds total approximately $1.165 trillion. 2021 Q2 Private Fund Statistics, Division of Investment
Management Analytics Office, available at https://www.sec.gov/divisions/investment/private-funds-statistics.shtml.
Data includes both U.S. and non-U.S. domicile hedge funds managed by SEC-registered investment advisers with at
least $150 million in private fund assets under management. The data does not include hedge funds that were
classified as multi-strategy on Form PF. These hedge funds could employ short selling as part of their multistrategy. Data for non-U.S. domicile hedge funds with an equity short-bias strategy is not publicly available
for 2021 Q2. In this case the last publicly available values were used (7 funds with a total AUM of $1 billion) from
2019 Q3. As of the end of 2021, hedge fund assets totaled approximately $4 trillion. Global Hedge Fund Industry
Assets Top $4 Trillion for the First Time, Reuters (Jan. 20, 2022), available at
https://www.reuters.com/business/finance/global-hedge-fund-industry-assets-top-4-trillion-first-time-2022-01-20/.
192 For example, according to Molk and Partnoy “insurance companies generally are not active short sellers.
Short selling by insurance companies is used almost exclusively to hedge positions, and generally is not used with
respect to equity positions at all.” Supra note 187 at 850. See also Molk and Partnoy discussion about banks and
trusts. “Trust administrators … have a history of adopting conservative investment strategies. Although shorting can
be used to reduce risk when matched with similar long positions, using short selling as an income generation tool is
not consistent with the overall conservative investment tradition.” Id. at 854.
99
is a fraction of the number of Managers reporting positions on Form 13F because such persons by
definition manage accounts holding Section 13(f) securities having an aggregate fair market value of at
least $100 million, making such Managers more likely to have the resources to engage in short selling
over the proposed rule’s thresholds. As of March 31, 2021, 7,550 Managers with investment discretion
over approximately $39.79 trillion reported holdings on Form 13F in Section 13(f) securities.193 The
Commission also believes that registered investment advisers, particularly those managing hedge funds,
are the primary Managers likely to be affected by the Proposed Rule. Though the Commission lacks data
to quantify the number affected parties, the Commission estimates that the total number of Managers
with reporting obligations will be between 346 and 1,000.
194
2. Short selling
Short selling is a widely used market practice, which allows investors to profit if an asset declines
in value or to hedge risks. Market participants can build an economic short positions using traditional
means (i.e., borrowing shares and selling them into the market to buy back later) or they can gain short
exposure using derivatives. This section provides an overview of the current state of obtaining short
exposure to equities and the different means of short selling – i.e., traditional means and using derivatives.
This information is based on the current state of research using existing data.
i. Short Selling Equities
A short sale is the sale of a security that the seller does not own or any sale that is consummated
by the delivery of a security borrowed by, or for the account of, the seller.195 In general, short selling is
used to profit from an expected downward price movement, to provide liquidity in response to
unanticipated demand, or to hedge the risk of an economic long position in the same security or in a
related security. To short sell a stock, the short seller borrows shares of a stock from a lender – typically a
 193 See Enhanced Reporting of Proxy Votes by Registered Management Investment Companies; Reporting of
Executive Compensation Votes by Institutional Investment Managers, Exchange Act Rel. No. 93169, (Oct. 15,
2021) available at https://www.govinfo.gov/content/pkg/FR-2021-10-15/pdf/2021-21549.pdf.
194 See supra section VII.B.2 for more information on the estimates of how many managers would have
reporting obligations.
195 See Rule 200(a) of Regulation SHO, 17 CFR 242.200(a). See also Regulation SHO Adopting Release,
supra note 4.
100
long-term investor such as a mutual fund or pension fund - and sells those shares into the market. Later,
the short seller purchases the same number of shares and returns them to the lender. The profit on the
transaction for the short seller is the difference between the price at which the shares were initially sold
and the price at which the investor re-purchased the shares– less any fees such as securities lending fees.
If the price of the stock goes down then this difference will be positive and the investor will make money.
In addition to short selling based on negative sentiment, market participants also short sell to
hedge existing positions. Hedging is a particularly potent motive to short sell a stock for options market
makers who can hedge the risk of writing a call option by short selling the underlying stock in the stock
market. Other investors use short selling to hedge out an unwanted component of a stock’s return. For
example, an investor who wants to buy a particular stock to trade on stock specific information but does
not want to expose itself to industry risk can hedge industry risk by short selling an industry index ETF
while purchasing the underlying security. Market makers also use short selling extensively to maintain
two sided quotes in the temporary absence of inventory. Lastly, traders may use short selling as part of
algorithmic trading strategies attempting to detect temporary pricing anomalies. While short selling to
trade on information or to hedge generally results in short positions that are held for some time, market
makers and algorithmic technical traders generally close their positions by the end of the day and thus
their short positions generally do not show up in existing measures of short interest.196
Short selling generally entails more risk than holding a long position. At worst, a buyer of a long
position can lose its entire investment. This is not true for a short seller. If the stock price increases from
the short sale price, the investor loses money and since prices could potentially rise indefinitely, the short
seller could lose more than the value of its original investment. Additionally, margin requirements for
short selling are typically 150% - including the proceeds of the short sale plus an additional 50% of the
value of the short position.197 If the stock price goes up, the investor may receive a margin call, which
would require the investor to commit additional assets to meet margin requirements. To protect itself from
 196 See infra Part VIII.C.4.i (for a discussion of existing short interest data).
197 Regulation T specifies that in most situations margin requirements for equity short sales must be 150%.
See 12 CFR 220.12 (1998), available at https://www.ecfr.gov/current/title-12/chapter-II/subchapter-A/part220/section-220.12.
101
losses, if an investor is unable to meet margin requirements, the broker-dealer may close the short
position at a significant loss to the short seller. These dynamics can make it difficult for investors to
maintain short positions in highly volatile stocks.
Short selling is facilitated by the securities lending market. Borrowing shares generally occurs
two days after the short sale is executed. This is because stock market transactions normally settle two
business days after the transaction occurs, while securities lending transactions settle on the same day.198
Consequently, a short seller (or their broker-dealer) will gauge the ability to borrow shares prior to
executing the short sale, referred to as obtaining a “locate,” but would actually borrow the share on the
day that they are required to deliver the share to settle the stock market transaction.
Short selling is prevalent in equity markets in general. A common ratio used to capture the
amount of short selling is the short interest ratio, which measures the fraction of shares sold short at a
given point in time divided by the total shares outstanding for that security. Figure 1 below presents the
time series average for short interest outstanding for equities with different characteristics. This Figure
shows that short interest tends to be higher for small-cap stocks than for mid- or large-cap stocks.
Another way to measure the prevalence of short selling in financial markets is by analyzing the
fraction of transactions that involve a short seller. Short sellers are involved in nearly 50% of trading
volume, while only about 2% of shares outstanding are held short in the U.S. equity markets.199 This
average volume of short selling tends to be much higher than the typical changes in short interest, 200
 198 There have been recent efforts by industry members to shorten the settlement cycle to one business day.
Furthermore, the Commission has proposed to shorten the settlement cycle. Shortening the Securities Transaction
Settlement Cycle, Exch. Act Rel. No. 94196 (Feb. 9, 2022) available at
https://www.sec.gov/rules/proposed/2022/34-94196.pdf. See also SIFMA, ICI, DTCC and Deloitte, Accelerating
the U.S. Securities Settlement Cycle to T+1 (Ver. 1.0) (Dec. 1, 2021), available at https://www.sifma.org/wpcontent/uploads/2021/12/Accelerating-the-U.S.-Securities-Settlement-Cycle-to-T1-December-1-2021.pdf.
199 See supra note 6, Figure F.1 in the DERA 417(a)(2) Study (showing that the level of short selling as a
percentage of trading volume grew from 2007 to 2013 to about 50%). See also D. Rapach, M. C. Ringgenberg, and
G. Zhou, Short Interest and Aggregate Stock Returns, J. OF FIN. ECON. 46-65 (2016).
200 The Commission analyzed trading volume for common shares during the year 2019. This analysis revealed
that the average common share during this period traded approximately five percent of shares outstanding each
week, with approximately half of all trades involving short sellers. Consequently, total short selling volume
amounts to approximately five percent of shares outstanding every two weeks for a typical stock. In contrast, from
2015-2019, absolute changes in short interest approximately every two weeks have equaled about a half of a percent
of shares outstanding. Thus the total amount of short selling volume occurring is an order of magnitude larger than
the changes in short interest over the same time period. These statistics suggest that the majority of short selling
transactions likely do not involve long term traders building short positions. Additionally, the correlation coefficient
102
suggesting that a significant fraction of short selling volume is reversed very quickly. Such short selling
may be more indicative of the fact that short selling is a key component of modern market making
strategies and technical algorithmic trading.201
Figure 1: Short Interest Ratio for Non-Financial Common Stocks, Jan. 2005 – Feb. 2021
This figure plots the weighted average short interest ratio for three groups of stocks based on market capitalization
on a bi-weekly basis from for January 2005 to February 2021. Large cap stocks are defined as having a market
capitalization of greater than $10 billion, mid cap as $2 billion to less than $10 billion, and small cap as less than $2
billion. We estimate the short interest ratio for each stock as the number of shares in short interest reported by the
exchanges on a bi-weekly basis and obtained from the Compustat North America Supplemental Short Interest File
(for NYSE- and Nasdaq-listed stocks), divided by shares outstanding obtained from the Center for Research in
Security Prices, LLC (CRSP) daily stock files. Since short interest is reported as of the settlement date, we match
short interest to the trading date two days prior to the short interest report date. The sample includes non-financial
(i.e., excluding stocks with SIC code between 6000 and 6999) and common stocks (i.e., CRSP share code of 10 or
11). Following Blocher & Ringgenberg (2019), we discard stocks whose short interest ratio and adjusted short
interest ratio (where the adjusted short ratio is adjusted for stock splits, buybacks, etc.) differ by more than 10%, in
order to exclude potential asynchronous adjustments for stock splits in the shares outstanding and short interest
datasets. Furthermore, stock-date observations for which a stock has multiple gvkey’s (Compustat identifier) or
permno’s (CRSP identifier) per date are removed. We then take the value-weighted average short interest ratio
within a group, using market capitalization as weights. Market capitalization is calculated as shares outstanding
multiplied by the closing price (obtained from the CRSP daily stock files) two days prior to the short interest record
date. S&P 500 values are obtained from the CRSP Index file. See Jesse Blocher, Matthew C. Ringgenberg, et al.,
When Do Short Sellers Exit Their Positions?, SSRN (Aug. 27, 2018), available at
https://ssrn.com/abstract=2634579

for bi-monthly changes in short interest and short selling volume in 2019 is only about 0.018. This low correlation
suggests that the economic forces driving total short selling volume and changes in short interest are likely different.
201 See infra Part V.4.iii (for a more detailed discussion of short selling and liquidity provision).
103

ii. Taking Short Positions via Derivatives
Trading in derivatives affects short selling in two key ways. First, derivatives offer investors an
alternative means to express negative sentiment rather than short selling the stock. For instance, an
investor wishing to profit from the decline of a security’s value can also trade in various derivative
contracts, including options and security-based swaps. Confirming this alternative means of short selling,
academic research shows that investors do indeed use options as an alternative means to obtain short-like
economic exposure when standard short selling is restricted.
202
Among the most popular derivative contracts are options, specifically put and call options. Call
options give the owner of the option the right but not the obligation to purchase a stock at a specific price
on a future date. Put options are similar, but give the owner of the option the right but not the obligation
to sell a stock at a specific price at a future date. In a put option the seller of the option is taking a long
position in the underlying security while the purchaser of the put is taking a short position. The opposite
is true for a call option.
In addition to options, convertible securities (in which the security can be converted into an
equity security) and security-based swaps can be used to create the same economic exposure as a short
position.203 Security-based swaps include total-return swaps in which two counterparties agree to
exchange or “swap” payment with each other as a result of changes in a security characteristic, such as
the its price.204 As with options, in each of these derivative contracts one party is inherently long and the

202 See Robert Battalio and Paul Schultz, Regulatory Uncertainty and Market Liquidity: The 2008 Short Sale
Ban's Impact on Equity Option Markets, 66 J. OF FIN. 2013-2053 (2011); B.D. Grundy, B. Lim, and P. Verwijmeren,
Do Option Markets Undo Restrictions on Short Sales? Evidence from the 2008 Short-Sale Ban, 106 J. OF FIN. ECON.
331-348 (2012). See also G.J. Jiang, Y. Shimizu, and C. Strong, Back to the Futures: When Short Selling is Banned
(2019), available at https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=3420275.
203 On September 19, 2019 the Commission approved the “Recordkeeping and Reporting Requirements for
Security-Based Swap Dealers, Major Security-based Swap Participants, and Broker-Dealers” which established a
regulatory regime for security-based swaps under Title VII of the Dodd-Frank Act. See Recordkeeping and
Reporting Requirements for Security-Based Swap Dealers, Major Security-Based Swap Participants, and BrokerDealers, Exchange Act Release No. 87005 (Sept. 19, 2019), 84 FR 68550 (Dec. 16, 2019), available at
https://www.sec.gov/rules/final/2019/34-87005.pdf.
204 On July 9, 2012, the Commission approved rules and definitions of Security based swaps. See 17 CFR
§§ 230, 240-241; Further Definition of “Swap,” “Security-Based Swap,” and “Security-Based Swap Agreement”;
104
other party is inherently short. These derivatives, and other more exotic derivatives, tend not to be as
standardized as options, and are traded over-the-counter. Security-based swap transactions are reported to
and publicly disseminated by security-based swap data repositories.205
In addition to providing an alternative means of expressing a bearish sentiment, trading in
derivatives frequently leads to related trading in the stock market as derivatives’ counterparties seek to
hedge their risk. For example, an options market maker who sells a put has taken on long exposure to the
underlying security and may hedge this position by opening a short position in the underlying security.
Thus, option market makers who sell large quantities of put options may amass large short positions in
the underlying equities to hedge their options exposure.
3. Current Short Selling Regulations
Compliance with Regulation SHO began on January 3, 2005.206 The Commission adopted
Regulation SHO to update short sale regulation in light of numerous market developments since short sale
regulation was first adopted in 1938 and to address concerns regarding persistent failures to deliver and
potentially abusive “naked” short selling.207

Mixed Swaps; Security-Based Swap Agreement Recordkeeping, Commodity Futures Trading Commission and
Securities and Exchange Commission, available at https://www.sec.gov/rules/final/2012/33-9338.pdf.
205 See, e.g., Regulation SBSR—Reporting and Dissemination of Security-Based Swap Information, Exchange
Act Release No. 74244 (Feb. 11, 2015), 80 FR 14563 (Mar. 19, 2015) (“2015 Regulation SBSR Adopting Release”);
Security-Based Swap Data Repository Registration, Duties, and Core Principles, Exchange Act Release No. 74246
(Feb. 11, 2015), 80 FR 14437 (Mar. 19, 2015); Regulation SBSR—Reporting and Dissemination of Security-Based
Swap Information, Exchange Act Release No. 78321 (July 14, 2016), 81 FR 53545 (Aug. 12, 2016) (“2016
Regulation SBSR Adopting Release”). See also Order Approving Application for Registration as a Security-Based
Swap Data Repository, available at https://www.sec.gov/rules/other/2021/34-91798.pdf.
206 See Regulation SHO Adopting Release, supra note 3.
207 In a “naked” short sale, the seller does not borrow or arrange to borrow the securities in time to make
delivery to the buyer within the standard two-day settlement cycle. As a result, the seller fails to deliver securities to
the buyer when delivery is due (also known as a “failure to deliver”).
105
In adopting Regulation SHO, the Commission recognized that short sales can provide important
pricing information208 and liquidity to the market.209 However, the Commission was also concerned with
the negative effect that failures to deliver may have on shareholders and the markets. For example, large
and persistent failures to deliver may deprive shareholders of the benefits of ownership, such as voting
and lending, and sellers that fail to deliver securities on settlement date may attempt to use their failures
to engage in trading activities to improperly depress the price of a security.
Due to continued concerns regarding failures to deliver, and to promote market stability and
preserve investor confidence, the Commission has amended Regulation SHO on several occasions. For
example, the Commission eliminated certain original exceptions to Regulation SHO’s close-out
requirements,210 strengthened those same close-out requirements by adopting Rule 204,211 and
reintroduced a short sale price test restriction by adopting Rule 201.212 In addition, the Commission

208 Efficient markets require that prices fully reflect all buy and sell interest. Market participants who believe
a stock is overvalued may engage in short sales in an attempt to profit from a perceived divergence of prices from
true economic values. Such short sellers add to stock pricing efficiency because their transactions inform the market
of their evaluation of future stock price performance. This evaluation is reflected in the resulting market price of the
security. See Exchange Act Release No. 48709 (October 28, 2003), 68 FR 62972 (November 6, 2003), available at
https://www.sec.gov/rules/proposed/34-48709.htm#P179_15857.
209 Market liquidity is generally provided through short selling by market professionals, such as market
makers, who offset temporary imbalances in the buying and selling interest for securities. Short sales effected in the
market add to the selling interest of stock available to purchasers, and reduce the risk that the price paid by investors
is artificially high due to a temporary contraction of selling interest. Short sellers covering their sales also may add
to the buying interest of stock available to sellers. See Exchange Act Release No. 48709 (October 28, 2003), 68 FR
62972 (November 6, 2003), available at https://www.sec.gov/rules/proposed/34-48709.htm#P179_15857.
210 As initially adopted, Regulation SHO included two major exceptions to its then existing close out
requirements: the ‘‘grandfather’’ provision and the ‘‘options market maker’’ exception. Due to continued concerns
regarding failures to deliver, and the fact that the Commission continued to observe certain securities with failures to
deliver that were not being closed out consistent with its then existing close out requirements, the Commission
eliminated the ‘‘grandfather’’ provision in 2007 and the “options market maker” exception in 2008. See Exchange
Act Release No. 56212 (Aug. 7, 2007), 72 FR 45544 (Aug. 14, 2007) (eliminating the “grandfather” provision to
Regulation SHO’s close out requirement), available at https://www.sec.gov/rules/final/2007/34-56212fr.pdf;
Exchange Act Release No. 58775 (Oct. 14, 2008), 73 FR 61690 (Oct. 17, 2008) (eliminating the “options market
maker” exception to Regulation SHO’s close out requirement), available at
https://www.sec.gov/rules/final/2008/34-58775fr.pdf.
211 In 2008, the Commission adopted temporary Rule 204T, and in 2009 adopted Rule 204. Rule 204 further
strengthens Regulation SHO’s close out requirements by making those requirements applicable to failing to deliver
results from sales of all equity securities, while reducing the time-frame within which failures to deliver must be
closed out. See Exchange Act Release No. 60388 (July 27, 2009), 74 FR 38266 (July 31, 2009), available at
https://www.sec.gov/rules/final/2009/34-60388fr.pdf.
212 In 2004, the Commission initiated a year-long pilot to study the removal of short sale price tests for
approximately one-third of the largest stocks. After review of the pilot’s data, the Commission proposed the
elimination of all short sale price tests. In June 2007, the Commission adopted a rule that eliminated all short sale
price tests, including Rule 10a-1, a predecessor to Regulation SHO. The rule became effective in July 2007. In
106
adopted a targeted antifraud rule, Rule 10b-21, to further address failures to deliver in securities that have
been associated with “naked” short selling.213
Regulation SHO requires broker-dealers to properly mark sale orders as “long,” “short,” or “short
exempt,” to locate a source of shares prior to effecting a short sale (also known as the “locate”
requirement), and to close out failures to deliver that result from long or short sales. In addition, if the
price of an equity security has experienced significant downward price pressure, Regulation SHO
temporarily restricts the price at which short sales may be effected.
Regulation SHO’s four general requirements are summarized below:
• Rule 200 - Marking Requirement. Rule 200(g) requires that a broker-dealer mark all sell orders of
any equity security as “long,” “short,” or “short exempt.” A sell order may only be marked “long”
if the seller is “deemed to own” the security being sold and either (i) the security to be delivered
is in the physical possession or control of the broker or dealer; or (ii) it is reasonably expected
that the security would be in the physical possession or control of the broker or dealer no later
than the settlement of the transaction. The “short exempt” marking requirement applies only with
respect to the Rule 201 short sale price test circuit breaker noted below.
• Rule 203(b)(1) and (2) - “Locate” Requirement. Rule 203(b)(1) generally prohibits a brokerdealer from accepting a short sale order in an equity security from another person, or effecting a
short sale in an equity security for its own account, unless the broker-dealer has borrowed the
security, entered into a bona-fide arrangement to borrow the security, or has reasonable grounds
to believe that the security can be borrowed so that it can be delivered on the date delivery is due.
Rule 203(b)(2) provides an exception to the locate requirement for short sales effected by a
market maker in connection with “bona-fide” market making activities.
• Rule 204 - Close out Requirement. Rule 204 requires a participant of a registered clearing agency
(i.e., a clearing member) to deliver securities to a registered clearing agency for clearance and
settlement on a long or short sale transaction in any equity security by settlement date, or to
immediately close out a failure to deliver by borrowing or purchasing securities of like kind and
quantity by the applicable close out date. For a short sale, a participant must close out a failure to
deliver by no later than the beginning of regular trading hours on T+3. For a long sale, or for
activity that is attributable to “bona-fide” market making activities, a participant must close out a
failure to deliver by no later than the beginning of regular trading hours on T+5.
• Rule 201 - Short Sale Price Test Circuit Breaker. Rule 201 generally prevents short selling,
including potentially manipulative or abusive short selling, from driving down further the price of
a security that has already experienced a significant intraday price decline, and facilitates the

2010, the Commission reinstituted a short sale price test restriction by adopting Rule 201. See Exchange Act
Release No. 61595 (Feb. 26, 2010), 75 FR 11232 (Mar. 10, 2010), available at
https://www.sec.gov/rules/final/2010/34-61595fr.pdf.
213 Rule 10b-21 is an antifraud provision intended to supplement existing antifraud rules, including Rule
10b-5, and to further evidence the liability of short sellers. This includes broker-dealers acting for their own
accounts, who deceive specified persons about their intention or ability to deliver securities in time for settlement,
while failing to deliver securities by settlement date. Among other things, the rule highlights the specific liability of
short sellers who deceive their broker-dealers about their source of borrowable shares for purposes of complying
with Regulation SHO’s “locate” requirement, or who misrepresent to their broker-dealers that they own the shares
being sold and subsequently fail to deliver shares. See supra note 12, Exchange Act Release No. 58774, available at
https://www.sec.gov/rules/final/2008/34-58774.pdf.
107
ability of long sellers to sell first upon such a decline. Rule 201 contains a short sale circuit
breaker that, when triggered by a price decline of 10% or more from a covered security’s prior
closing price, imposes a restriction on the price at which the covered security may be sold short
(i.e., must be above the current national best bid). Once triggered, the price restriction would
apply to short sale orders in that security for the remainder of the day and the following day,
unless an exception applies.
In addition, Rule 105 of Regulation M generally prohibits participation in secondary offerings by
persons who have sold short during the restricted period before the offering.
Regulation SHO imposes certain recordkeeping obligations on broker-dealers. However, the
Commission does not have any information on how often the bona fide market making exception is used.
Furthermore, bona fide market making information is not reported on a regular basis, instead the
Commission must request bona fide market making records on a broker-dealer by broker-dealer basis.214
In addition, regulations currently do not require market participants to record, report, or track
when short sellers buy-to-cover their short sales. This makes it difficult for regulators to assess
compliance with Rule 105 and with close out requirements in Rule 204.
4. Existing short selling data
There are several sources of short selling data that are available both publicly and for regulatory
purposes. In general, these data sources lack information about levels of and the timing of changes in
economic short exposure for specific managers in specific securities. Some sources report aggregate short
positions at the security level, but their content is not granular enough to further the understanding of
short selling strategies. Other sources provide granular short volume information, but they are unable to
distinguish short transactions that impact short positions from those that do not and do not contain all
activity that can change short positions. Some regulatory data sources report short transactions at the
individual investor level, but estimating short positions using these data would be significantly inaccurate
and inefficient.
 214 See supra Part VI.B (Reliance on Bona Fide Market Making Exception, for more information on the
inefficiencies of not having a systematic way of capturing bona fide market making activities).
108
i. Bi-Monthly Short Interest Data
One of the primary data sources for aggregate short selling data is the bi-monthly short interest
data collected by FINRA.215 FINRA collects aggregate short interest information in individual securities
on a bi-monthly basis as the total number of shares sold short in a given stock as of the middle and end of
each month. Then the exchange that lists the given stock, or FINRA itself in the case of OTC stocks,
distributes the collected data.216 FINRA computes short interest using information it receives from its
broker-dealer members pursuant to FINRA Rule 4560 reflecting all trades cleared through clearing
broker-dealers.217 FINRA Rule 4560 requires generally that broker-dealers that are FINRA members
report “short positions” in customer and proprietary firm accounts in all equity securities twice a month
through FINRA’s web-based Regulation Filing Applications (RFA) system. 218 FINRA defines “short
positions” for this purpose simply as those resulting from “short sales” as defined in Rule 200(a) of
Regulation SHO under the Exchange Act.219 Member firms must report their short positions to FINRA
regardless of position size.220 The process of gathering and validating short interest data takes
approximately two weeks.221 Thus the data is available with approximately a two week lag.
These short interest data are widely available and are used by academics and other market
participants.222 These short interest data are found to predict future stock and market returns over the
monthly and annual horizons, suggesting that the bi-monthly short interest data capture the economic

215 See supra note 6, DERA 417(a)(2) Study at 17-18.
216 See Short Interest – What It Is, What It Is Not, FINRA INV’R INSIGHTS (Apr. 12, 2021), available at
https://www.finra.org/investors/insights/short-interest.
217 Id. (Short interest for a listed security at any date reported by FINRA is “a snapshot of the total open short
positions in a security existing on the books and records of brokerage firms on a given date.”).
218 FINRA Rule 4560 excludes short sales in “restricted equity securities,” as defined in Securities Act Rule
144, from the reporting requirement.
219 See FINRA Rule 4560(b)(1).
220 See FINRA Market Regulation Department, General for Short Interest Reporting Instructions, (Dec. 18,
2008) (reporting instructions to FINRA member firms), available at
https://www.finra.org/Industry/Compliance/RegulatoryFilings/ShortInterestReporting/P037072.
221 See supra note 6, DERA 417(a)(2) Study at 17-18.
222 See supra note 182 (FINRA and the listing exchanges make these data publicly available with bi-weekly
updates).
109
short selling based on fundamental research.223 However, these data face two major limitations.224 First,
the information content does not provide insight into the timing with which short positions are established
or covered over the two-week reporting period. This precludes the possibility of understanding the
behavior of aggregate economic short selling in the two weeks leading up to the reporting date of the
positions. Second, given that short interest is aggregated at the security-level, the aggregation prevents the
Commission and the public from understanding certain aspects of the underlying short selling activity.
For example, the data cannot inform on whether short sentiment is broadly or narrowly held or the extent
to which existing short interest is hedging in nature or based on short sentiment.
ii. Short Selling Volume and Transactions from SROs
Since 2009, many SROs have been publishing two short selling data sets, including same day
publication of daily aggregated short sale volume in individual securities225 and publication of short sale
transaction information on no more than a two-month delay.226 Some SROs make the historical daily
short volume data available to market participants for a fee.227 The fact that market participants and

223 See, e.g., Peter N. Dixon and Eric K. Kelley, Business Cycle Variation in Short Selling Strategies: Picking
During Expansions and Timing During Recessions, J. OF FIN. AND QUANTITATIVE ANALYSIS (Forthcoming); see
also Ekkehart Boehmer, Zsuzsa R. Huszar, and Bradford D. Jordan, The Good News in Short Interest, 96 (1)
Journal of Financial Economics 80-97 (2010); Stephen Figlewski, The Informational Effects of Restrictions on
Short Sales: Some Empirical Evidence, 16 (4) J. OF FIN. AND QUANTITATIVE ANALYSIS 463-476 (1981).
224 See supra note 33.
225 See Short Sale Volume and Transaction Data, available at
https://www.sec.gov/answers/shortsalevolume.htm; (showing hyperlinks to the websites where SROs publish this
data). See also supra note 183. See, e.g., FINRA’s Daily Short Sale Volume Files (which provide aggregated
volume by security on all short sale trades executed and reported to a FINRA reporting facility during normal
market hours). See FINRA Information Notice, Publication of Daily and Monthly Short Sale Reports (Sept. 29,
2009), available at https://www.finra.org/sites/default/files/NoticeDocument/p120044.pdf.
226 See FINRA’s Monthly Short Sale Transaction Files (which provide detailed trade activity of all short sale
trades reported to a consolidated tape. See supra note 183; See also Short Sale Volume and Transaction Data,
available at https://www.sec.gov/answers/shortsalevolume.htm. Additional transaction data has been available at
various times, including transaction data from the Regulation SHO Pilot, which has been discontinued by most
exchanges in July 2007 when the uptick rule was removed. See Exchange Act Release No. 55970 (Jun. 28, 2007), 72
FR 36348 (July 3, 2007), available at https://www.sec.gov/rules/final/2007/34-55970.pdf. The Pilot data comprised
short selling records available from each of nine markets: American Stock Exchange, Archipelago Exchange,
Boston Stock Exchange, Chicago Stock Exchange, NASD, Nasdaq Stock Market, New York Stock Exchange,
National Stock Exchange, and the Philadelphia Stock Exchange. See SEC Division of Trading and Markets,
Regulation SHO Pilot Data FAQ, available at https://www.sec.gov/spotlight/shopilot.htm#pilotfaq.
227 See, e.g., TAQ Group Short Sale & Short Volume, New York Stock Exchange, available at
https://www.nyse.com/market-data/historical/taq-nyse-group-short-sales (for short sale data relating to all NYSE
owned exchanges). See Short Sale Volume and Transaction Reports from Nasdaq Trader, available at
https://nasdaqtrader.com/Trader.aspx?id=shortsale (for short sale data for Nasdaq exchanges); see also Short Sale
110
academic users pay these subscription fees indicate that these data are utilized. In addition to these daily
short volume data, FINRA provides intraday short sale transaction information for the orders that execute
and information from FINRA’s Trade Reporting Facility (“TRF”) and Alternative Display Facility
(“ADF”) 228 (the TRF and ADF are together referred to herein as “FINRA’s Reporting Facilities”).
Overall, these different sources of daily and intraday short volume data provide greater, though different,
levels of granularity relative to the bi-monthly short interest observations discussed earlier.
Despite offering higher granularity, these existing short volume data provided by the SROs and
FINRA have a number of limitations. First, the data does not provide insight into the activities of either
individual traders, or different trader types. Consequently, it is not possible with existing short selling
data provided by the SROs and FINRA to separate trading volume associated with market makers,
algorithmic traders, investment managers, or other trader types.
Additionally, the data does not provide insight into activities that may reduce short exposure, thus
using these data to estimate investor sentiment is fraught. For example, these data provide information
only on short sales, whereas short positions could also change because investors can increase or decrease
their positions in ways other than short selling the stock. For example, investors can increase their short
positions by exercising put options and delivering borrowed shares or by delivering borrowed shares
when they are assigned call options. Investors can reduce their short positions in an equity when they, for
example, buy to cover their positions, purchase shares in a secondary offering, convert bonds to stock, or
redeem ETF shares containing the equity. As a result of this, the short selling volume and transactions
data cannot easily explain changes in short interest, exposing a gap between these two types of existing
data.
Aggregate short selling statistics and short selling transactions data have different lags with which
they are available. Aggregate short selling volume statistics are usually put out by the SROs by the end of
the following business day. For the transactions data, the lag can be much longer, and in some cases the

Daily Reports, Chicago Board Options Exchange, (for Cboe exchanges) available at
https://www.cboe.com/us/equities/market_statistics/short_sale/.
228 Each TRF provides FINRA members with a mechanism for the public reporting of transactions effected
otherwise than on an exchange. See FINRA, Market Transparency Trade Reporting Facility, available at
https://www.finra.org/Industry/Compliance/MarketTransparency/TRF/.
111
data is released with a one month lag – implying that some short selling transactions data are not available
for two months.
There is also a concern that these data may over-represent the total volume of short sales
occurring in the market. This is because Regulation SHO provides specific criteria regarding what is a
long sale.229 If a market participant is unclear whether their trade would meet all the requirements at
settlement to be marked a long sale, then they may choose to mark the trade as short to not run afoul of
Regulation SHO requirements, even if the trade is likely an economic long sale.230
iii. Securities Lending
Securities lending data provides information on stock loan volume, lending costs, and the
percentage of available stock out on loan, which some market participants use as measures of short
selling.231 The securities lending industry appears to use securities lending data widely, though it is
generally available only by subscription.232
The use of security lending data as proxy for economic short interest is associated with at least
two major setbacks. First, commercial vendors of the securities lending data often impose access
restrictions via high nominal subscription fees or give-to-get models. In this setting, the entities
contributing data are mindful of whether other entities can access to the data. As such, participation rates
 229 See Rule 200(g) of Regulation SHO specifies when an order can be marked as long. See also Part III.B;
note 4 Regulation SHO Adopting Release.
230 See 2009 letter from Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association (“SIFMA”) commenting on an
alternative short sale price test, expressing concern that compliance with Regulation SHO short selling marking
requirements “will result in a substantial over-marking of orders as “short” in situations where firms are, in fact,
“long” the securities being sold.” Letter from Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association (“SIFMA
Letter”), available at https://www.sec.gov/comments/s7-08-09/s70809-4654.pdf.
231 Several commercial entities sell data on securities lending to clients. See, e.g., 2011 Letter from Data
Explorers (“Data Explorers Letter”) (in response to the request for comment relating to the proposed study of the
cost and benefits of short selling required by Dodd Frank Act Section 417(a)(2)), available at
https://www.sec.gov/comments/4-627/4627-152.pdf. As some commenters have noted, stock lending facilitates
short selling. See, e.g., Speech by Chester Spatt, former Chief Economist of the SEC (April 20, 2007), available at
https://www.sec.gov/news/speech/2007/spch042007css.htm. The information sold by vendors may include volume
of loans, lending costs, and the percentage of available stock out on loan. This data offers indirect evidence of short
selling, and some research has used stock lending data as a proxy for actual short sales. See, e.g., Oliver Wyman,
The Effects of Short Selling Public Disclosure of Individual Positions on Equity Markets, Alternative Investment
Management Association (Feb. 2011), available at https://www.oliverwyman.com/ourexpertise/insights/2010/feb/the-effects-of-short-selling-public-disclosure-regimes-on-equity.html.
232 See supra note 6, DERA 417(a)(2) Study at 22-23.
112
in data sharing reflects strategic considerations that may lower the extent of data shared by each entity,
reducing the information content of the pool of the data collected by each vendor. The market for these
data is dominated by three major vendors, making it difficult for a given market participants to obtain
access to comprehensive security lending in formation from one source. To this end, the existing data
accessible by an individual market participant may not accurately proxy short selling activity. Second,
while securities lending may be correlated with short selling, it is not a perfect measure of short selling. In
practice, securities lending may be used for purposes other than short sales such as to cover failure to
deliver or to borrow cash. In addition, short selling that is covered within the trading day does not require
any loans, and vendors of commercial securities lending data do not have complete information. For
example, they have less than 100% of the negotiated loans and no information on borrowing from margin
accounts.233
iv. CAT Data
Regulators can also extract short sale information from CAT data, which provides order lifecycle
information for stocks and options.234 The data contain an order mark that is a part of the “material terms
of the trade” that indicates whether an order is a short sale. This order mark allows regulators to identify
traders who are short selling and to see the order entry and execution times of these short sales. However,
CAT was not designed to track traders’ positions or changes in those positions, but rather collects
information to analyze trading and order lifecycles. As such, using CAT data to estimate positions and
changes in those positions can be challenging.
Theoretically, one could use the order execution information in CAT data to estimate trader
positions and track how those positions change over time. However, such estimates could be inaccurate in
several circumstances. First, CAT data do not include information on the long or short positions held in
each account at the time that Industry Members started reporting, so CAT does not provide an appropriate
 233 See supra note 6, DERA 417(a)(2) Study at 23. The Commission has recently proposed a new rule, Rule
10c-1, and if adopted as proposed, the Commission and market participants would have access to comprehensive
securities lending data market data that would significantly improve current securities lending based short selling
estimates. See Reporting of Securities Loans, Exchange Act Release No. 93613, available at
https://www.sec.gov/rules/proposed/2021/34-93613.pdf.
234 It is important to note that only regulators have access to CAT data.
113
starting point for building short positions using investor-specific transaction information. Second, some
investors may establish or cover short positions via other means that are not CAT reportable events, for
example: secondary offering transactions; option assignments; option exercises; conversions; or ETF
creations and redemptions. Additionally, until the Customer Account Information System (CAIS) system
goes live, which is expected in July 2022, there is no easy way to match Firm Designated ID (FDIDs) in
CAT to individual Managers. Thus it is not currently feasible to identify the subset of CAT data
pertaining to Managers. However, once the CAIS system goes live it would be possible for regulators to
identify individuals in CAT, even if those individuals use multiple broker-dealers.
CAT is not designed to track positions. However, when focused on one or few accounts,
estimating positions, though potentially inaccurate, can be manageable. Using transaction information to
track positions across a broad set of positions is inefficient. Even in situations in which the above
limitations do not apply, the use of CAT data to estimate short positions and changes in those positions
for all or a large set of accounts is inefficient and would require a tremendous amount of processing
power, which would take time and reduce the processing power available for other CAT queries. This
hinders the Commission’s estimation of short positions in a timely fashion.
Other than the inefficient means of estimating positions described above, CAT does not
distinguish buy orders that establish a long position from those that cover, and therefore reduce, a short
position. While Commission staff were able to identify some short covering activity during the volatile
period in January 2021, due to the difficulties described above, the staff analyzing the volatility associated
with meme stocks could not easily identify short covering activity using CAT data alone and was thus
hindered in their reconstruction of key events.
Finally, even though CAT data identifies short selling by market makers, the data do not provide
information as to whether a broker-dealer is claiming use of the Regulation SHO exceptions for bona fide
market making.
There are 24 national securities exchanges and one national securities association (FINRA) that
are CAT Plan Participants. There are also 3,734 broker-dealers who have reporting obligations to CAT, as
114
Industry Members. These Industry Members often us third-party reporting agents such as service bureaus
for CAT reporting.
v. Exchange Act Form SH
For a ten-month period in 2008 and 2009,235 the Commission required certain institutional
investment managers to submit confidential weekly reports of their short positions in Section 13(f)
securities, other than options, on Exchange Act Form SH, through Temporary Rule 10a3-T.
236 De minimis
short positions of less than 0.25% of the class of shares with a fair market value of less than $10 million
were not required to be reported.237 Additionally, only Managers that exercise investment discretion with
respect to accounts holding Section 13(f) securities having an aggregate fair market value of at least $100
million were required to report. The investment manager was required to report short positions to the
Commission on Form SH on a nonpublic basis on the last business day of each calendar week
immediately following any calendar week in which it effected short sales,238 a more frequent disclosure
interval than the quarterly public reporting of long positions required on Exchange Act Form 13F.239
In addition to the limited and temporary time period during which disclosure of short positions
was required to be reported on Exchange Act Form SH, even at the regulatory level, the reporting
requirements and data had several drawbacks and limitations. One drawback was that only Managers who
exercised investment discretion with respect to accounts holding Section 13(f) securities having an
aggregate fair market value of at least $100 million were required to file Form SH, which excluded
short-only funds and other large short sellers who did not file Form 13F. Additionally, the report was
 235 See supra note 6, DERA 417(a)(2) Study at 18.
236 With respect to each applicable Section 13(f) security, the Form SH filing was required to identify the
issuer and CUSIP number of the relevant security and reflect the manager’s start of day short position, the number
and value of securities sold short during the day, the end of day short position, the largest intraday short position,
and the time of the largest intraday short position. The reporting requirement was implemented via a series of
emergency orders followed by an interim final temporary rule, Rule 10a3-T. Exchange Act Release No. 58591
(Sept.18, 2008), 73 FR 55175 (Sept. 24, 2008); Exchange Act Release No. 58591A (Sept. 21, 2008), 73 FR 58987
(Sept. 25, 2008); Exchange Act Release No. 58724 (Oct. 2, 2008), 73 FR 58987 (Oct. 8, 2008); Exchange Act
Release No. 58785 (Oct. 15, 2008), 73 FR 61678 (Oct. 17, 2008).
237 See Exchange Act Release No. 58591 (Sept.18, 2008), 73 FR 55175 (Sept. 24, 2008).
238 See Exchange Act Release No. 58785, 73 FR at 61678.
239 Id.
115
costly as Managers filing Form SH had a weekly reporting requirement. Additionally, data fields in Form
SH including start of day short position, gross number of securities sold short during the day, and end of
day short position were each subject to the de minimis reporting threshold, which resulted in unreported
data points when only a subset of the fields exceeded the de minimis threshold. Furthermore, Form SH
data were not validated for errors such as duplicate entries, missing fields, or positions that were below
the de minimis threshold and therefore did not need to be reported, which make the data difficult to work
with.240
5. Competition
Many Managers operate in the investment management industry.241 In broad terms, investment
management is a highly competitive industry. Investment managers compete for investors and investor
funds. Among the bases on which Managers compete are returns, fees and costs, trading strategies, risk
management, and the ability to gather information. It is costly for investment managers to do market
research to gain an informational advantage. Investment managers who own a security have an advantage
over those who don’t in that a security owner can more cheaply trade on negative information by simply
selling whereas investment managers not owning the same security must establish some form of short
exposure, such as selling a security short, to capitalize on any negative information that they’ve
uncovered. Academic research suggests that when the cost of short selling increases, a security owner’s
advantage in terms of being able to profitably trade on gathered information increases, leading investors
not owning a security to engage in less fundamental research.242
Investment managers, like other investors that could be subject to Proposed Rule 13f-2, also
compete by using proprietary trading strategies. They typically seek to trade in ways that would not
expose their strategies because, if their strategies became known to others, the strategies could lose value
and such Managers could also suffer higher trading costs. More specifically, other traders could use

240 See supra note 80 (information on the methodology and caveats of using Form SH data).
241 See supra Part VIII.C.1.
242 This occurs because if an investor not owning the asset engages in fundamental research and discovers
evidence that a stock may be overpriced, then it is costly for that investor to act on that information. This is not true
for investors who own the asset as they can simply sell the shares that they own. See, e.g., Peter N. Dixon, Why Do
Short Selling Bans Increase Adverse Selection and Decrease Price Efficiency?, 11 (1) THE REV. OF ASSET PRICING
STUDIES 122-168 (2021).
116
copycat trading strategies try to mimic the Managers’ strategy, potentially competing away the
profitability of the strategy or other traders could anticipate when the Managers might trade, which could
result in higher trading costs for the Manager. Some Managers also compete for returns by engaging in
securities lending whereby assets are lent to other investors, often short sellers, for a fee. These fees in
aggregate can be substantial.243
Additionally, there are 3,734 broker-dealers. These broker-dealers also compete with each other
for order flow. The broker-dealer industry is a highly competitive industry with reasonably low barriers to
entry. Most trading activity is concentrated among a small number of large broker-dealers, with
thousands of small broker-dealers competing for niche or regional segments of the market. To limit costs
and make business more viable, the small broker-dealers often contract with bigger broker-dealers to
handle certain functions, such as clearing and execution, or to update technology. Larger broker-dealers
often enjoy economies of scale over smaller broker-dealers and compete with each other to service the
smaller broker-dealers who are both their competitors and customers.244 Broker-dealers compete in
multiple ways: reputation, convenience, and fees. Broker-dealers typically pass operating costs down to
their customers in the form of fees.
D. Economic Effects245
1. Investor Protection and Market Manipulation
The Proposals could lead to better investor protection by improving regulators’ reconstruction of
significant market events. They may also assist regulators in identifying manipulative short selling
strategies. Improved identification of manipulative short selling strategies may also serve as a deterrent to
would be manipulators and thus may help prevent manipulation. They would also improve the
Commission’s observation of systemic risk. However, to the extent that Managers may still be holding
 243 The securities lending market is large and complex. See Part VI.B. (the proposing release for proposed
Rule 10c-1 for a more detailed description of this market and players), available at
https://www.sec.gov/rules/proposed/2021/34-93613.pdf.
244 See CAT proposing release Part VII.A, available at https://www.sec.gov/rules/proposed/2010/34-
62174.pdf.
245 In preparing this economic analysis, the Commission accounted for the various types of Managers that
could be subject to the reporting requirements. In general, the Commission believes that the economic effects of the
rule are more influenced by the Managers’ investment strategy and motivation for short selling rather than by the
type of Manager that is reporting. Any exceptions are noted in the analysis. See supra Section VIII.C.1.
117
their short positions when the data becomes public, the Commission believes that Proposed Rule 13f-2
and Proposed Form SHO also could in some cases facilitate potentially manipulative strategies, such as
certain short squeezes. The Commission also believes that Proposed Rule 205 and the Proposal to Amend
CAT would improve regulators’ oversight of markets.
The Commission believes that the Proposals would enhance the Commission’s and SRO’s
reconstruction of significant market events by providing a clearer view into the role that short selling
plays in market events of interest. Specifically, the Commission could have used the buy to cover
information that would be provided by Proposed Rule 205 and data from Proposed Form SHO to
reconstruct market events and better understand the link between short sellers exiting their positions and
contemporaneous price volatility during the recent volatility associated with meme stocks. For example,
while short sellers as a whole were exiting their positions during the period of heightened volatility it may
have been the case that large short sellers were acting differently.
The data that would be provided in Proposed Form SHO would have provided information the
Commission could have used after the fact to examine separately short selling behavior of large short
sellers. Additionally, because short positions often take some time to create, the Commission could have
attempted to quickly identify individual short sellers with large short positions in the various meme stocks
in January 2021 based on the most recent reports; then the Commission could have used the enhanced
CAT data to understand how these short sellers traded during the heightened volatility.
246
Additionally, the activity data provided in Proposed Form SHO would allow the Commission to
observe how large short sellers responded to the heightened volatility, albeit with a time lag due to the
 246 It is currently not straightforward to map CAT transactions to individual traders as the Firm Designated ID
(FDID) assigned to each account are broker-dealer specific. Thus to map a trade reported in CAT to an individual
trader would require requesting the specific FDID for a given trader. This lack in functionality is expected to
change when the CAIS becomes operational. This system would allow regulators to map individual traders to their
FDID’s and thus pull CAT information specifically for individual traders. Thus, while technically feasible, pulling
data from CAT for specific traders is difficult, but will become much less so when the CAIS system becomes
operational. The CAIS system is expected to go live in July 2022. See Timeline, Consolidated Audit Trail,
available at https://www.catnmsplan.com/timeline. Additionally, some academics have critiqued the Commission
Staff’s GameStop report, the Report on Equity and Options Market Structure Conditions in Early 2021, available at
https://www.sec.gov/files/staff-report-equity-options-market-struction-conditions-early-2021.pdf, and some of its
methods, which were driven by data availability. See Joshua Mitts, Robert Battalio, Jonathan Brogaard, Matthew
Cain, Lawrence Glosten, and Brent Kochuba, A Report by the Ad Hoc Academic Committee on Equity and Options
Market Structure Conditions in Early 2021 (working paper) (2022), available at
https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=4030179.
118
filing deadline. Specifically, the Commission would be able to observe more precisely which days
reporting short sellers were most actively increasing or decreasing their short positions and correlate that
activity to market conditions on those days. The “activity categories” reported in Proposed Form SHO
would allow regulators to identify the specific means by which large short sellers alter their economic
short exposure on high volatility days. For example, economic short exposure may increase due to
increased number of shared sold, issuing call options, exercising put options, as well as other activities
that could raise the Manger’s short position. In contrast, economic short exposure may decrease due to
purchase of shares to cover short positions, exercising call options, issuing put options, obtaining shares
through secondary offerings or tendered conversions, and other activities that reduce short exposure.
Receiving data about each of these categories separately would facilitate more efficient oversight by
regulators.
Analysis of the data during periods of high volatility could help the Commission maintain fair
and orderly markets by highlighting key economic channels and mechanisms through which short selling
could affect periods of volatility or how periods of volatility affect short selling. This information can, in
turn, allow the Commission to more specifically tailor responses to similar or related events in the future.
While the CAT data provided by Proposed Rule 205 and the CAT amendment data would be provided
relatively quickly, the Proposed Form SHO data would not be available for up to a one-month lag.
Consequently, while the Proposed Form SHO data would be useful in recreating a significant market
event after the fact, it would not provide the Commission tools to examine an immediate crisis.
The “bona fide market making” information from the Proposal to Amend CAT would facilitate
regulatory analysis of the use of the bona fide market making exceptions to Regulation SHO.247 The bona
fide market making information from the Proposal to Amend CAT would provide regulators investigating
potential Regulation SHO violations with more regular access to clearer evidence of whether a market
 247 Two Regulation SHO rules include exceptions for bona fide market making. Rule 203(b)(2)(iii) exempts
market makers selling short in connection with bona fide market making activities from the requirement that a short
seller must either borrow or have reasonable grounds to believe he can borrow a security in time for delivery prior to
effecting a short sale. See 17 CFR 242.203(b)(2)(iii). Rule 204(a)(3) provides that a failure to deliver positions
attributable to bona fide market making activities by registered market makers, options market makers, or other
market makers obligated to quote in the over-the-counter markets, must be closed out by no later than the beginning
of regular trading hours on the third consecutive settlement day following the settlement date (T+5), rather than the
settlement day following the settlement date (T+2). See 17 CFR 242.204(a)(3).
119
maker was relying on a bona fide market making exception. This could save a significant amount of time
during an investigation. Having regular access to these data would provide the Commission with insight
into whether the exceptions for bona fide market making in Regulation SHO Rules 203 and 204 are being
used appropriately, which should assist in assessing compliance with, and thus the benefits of, Regulation
SHO.
The “bona fide market making” information and hedge information could improve regulators’
ability to interpret certain information in market reconstructions. Market reconstructions can sometimes
benefit from regulators knowing when certain activity is either directional or market neutral because the
motives and profitability of such trading types are different. The ‘bona fide market making’ information
would help regulators separate short selling that represents market makers’ liquidity provision to facilitate
investor demand from other short selling, including other market maker short selling. Because such short
selling is more likely to be in response to customer demand, the shorts are less likely to signify that the
short seller anticipates a price decline than if the short seller was trading directionally. Likewise, the
hedging information on Proposed Form SHO would provide information on whether a Manager’s position
is fully or partially hedged at the end of the month. From this, regulators could assess, for example, that
the activity reported on Proposed Form SHO during the month was likely not related to hedging activity if
the end of month position is not hedged, particularly if the previous month’s position was not hedged.
Additionally, the data provided by Proposed Rule 13f-2 and Proposal to Amend CAT would
allow the Commission to detect certain types of fraud in a timelier manner. The data provided by
Proposed Rule 13f-2 would improve the timeliness of fraud detection because the Proposed Form SHO
data would provide the Commission quick flags that may signal potential fraud. Additionally, the
enhanced CAT data would provide the Commission with regular access to improved information with
which to examine potential instances of fraud without needing to ask broker-dealers for information.
Improved detection of fraud may also help deter fraud, improving price efficiency and market
quality. Some market participants and academics have raised concerns that short selling may in some
120
instances offer the potential for stock price manipulation, including “short and distort” campaigns.248 In
“short and distort” strategies, which are illegal, the goal of manipulators is to first short a stock and then
engage in a campaign to spread unverified bad news about the stock with the objective of panicking other
investors into selling their stock in order to drive the price down.
249 If a “short and distort” campaign is
suspected, then detecting this behavior via the activity and positions data in Proposed Form SHO would
be easier than it would be using current data. Short and distort campaigns are more likely to occur in
stocks with lower market capitalizations with less public information.250 Consequently, among these stocks it
may not, in dollar terms, take a very large short position to reach the 2.5% threshold in securities of
smaller reporting issuers or the $500,000 threshold in securities of non-reporting issuers to report
Proposed Form SHO. 251 As a result, it is likely that an entity engaging in such a practice would be
required to report Proposed Form SHO data. Consequently, if “short and distort” type behavior were to be
suspected, then the Commission would be more likely to identify individuals with large short positions
and could thus quickly focus any inquiries on entities in an economic position to potentially profit from
manipulation. Then regulators could match buy to cover trading on individual days to statements or other

248 See, e.g., Comment letters submitted with regards to Short Sale Reporting Study Required by Dodd-Frank
Act Section 417(a)(2); See letters from Naphtali M. Hamlet (May 6, 2011); ; Jan Sargent (May 6, 2011); Lee R.
Donais, President and CEO, L.R. Donais Company (May 8, 2011); Joseph A. Scilla (May 9, 2011); Jane M.
Reichold (May 17, 2011); John Gensen (May 18, 2011); Victor Y. Wong (May 20, 2011); Kevin Rentzsch (May 24,
2011); Lynn C. Jasper (May 27, 2011); Donald L. Eddy (May 28, 2011); Al S. (Jun. 10, 2011); Jeffrey D. Morgan,
President and CEO, National Investor Relations Institute, at 3 (Jun. 21, 2011) (“NIRI”); Professor James J. Angel, at
2 (June 24, 2011); and Dennis Nixon, CEO and Chairman, International Bancshares Corporation, at 1 (July 18,
2011). See all letters are available at https://www.sec.gov/comments/4-627/4-627.shtml.
249 If successful, the scheme can drive down the price, allowing the manipulators to profit when they “buy-tocover” their short position at the reduced price. Short sellers could also engage in price manipulations by
systematically taking short positions in one firm while taking long positions in the competitor. See Bodie Zvi, Alex
Kane, and Alan J. Marcus, Investments and Portfolio Management, McGraw Hill Education (2011). See also Rafael
Matta, Sergio H. Rocha, and Paulo Vaz, Predatory Stock Price Manipulation, available at
https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=3551282.
250 See, e.g., Y. T. F. Wong and W. Zhao, Post-Apocalyptic: The Real Consequences of Activist Short-Selling.
(Working Paper) (2017), available at https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=2941015.
251 Academic research has found that the average short interest in stocks targeted by activist short sellers is
about ten percent, while it is only four percent for non-targeted firms. Consistent with high information
asymmetries, targeted firms also appear to have wider bid-ask spreads and higher disagreement among analysts. See
W. Zhao, Activist Short-Selling and Corporate Opacity (Working Paper) (2020), available at
https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=2852041.
121
actions of the investor which may indicate that the investor was engaging in such behavior. Regulators
could then use CAT data to investigate further the trading activity of the alleged manipulator.
There are other manipulations, which the data from the Proposals would help regulators identify.
For example, one theoretical study suggests that if managers’ decision-making is influenced by shifts in
stock prices, then short sellers could potentially negatively affect managerial decisions by depressing
stock prices when profitable projects are announced, which may lead managers to believe that their
project is not good and to abandon it. 252 Doing so may lead to worse managerial decision making and
lower stock prices. Another theoretical study argues that due to high levels of leverage and
interconnectedness in the finance industry, if short sellers are successful at causing even small declines in
stock price, then this can ripple through the financial system with large effects. 253 While the Commission
notes that there is currently no empirical evidence that these types of manipulation occur or are
widespread, should they be suspected, these types of manipulation could better be identified with the
positions and activity data. The positions data would allow the Commission to quickly identify
individuals with large short positions and then use the activity and CAT data to investigate their trading
behavior to look for signs of manipulation. Improved detection capacity may also lead to decreased fraud
as would be manipulators choose not to engage in manipulative behavior due to increased fear of
detection.254
Publicly releasing aggregated information about large short positions may, in some instances,
increase the risk of trading behavior harmful to short sellers, namely short squeezes, though the
Commission’s improved detection of such potential manipulation could help deter it. The Commission

252 See I. Goldstein and A. Guembel, Manipulation and the Allocational Role of Prices, 75 (1) THE REV. OF
ECON. STUDIES 133-164 (2008).
253 See Markus K. Brunnermeier and Martin Oehmke, Predatory Short Selling, 18 (6) REV. OF FIN. 2153-2195
(2014). Similarly, some have also asserted that short sellers may have played a role in the stock market crash at the
beginning of the Great Depression. See, e.g., Jonathan R. Macey, Mark Mitchell, and Jeffry Netter, Restrictions on
Short Sales: An Analysis of the Uptick Rule and its Role in View of the October 1987 Stock Market Crash, 74
CORNELL L. REV. 799, 801-802 (1989) (collecting reports of such allegations).
254 See letters from Christine Lambrechts (hereafter “Lambrechts Letter”), available at
https://www.sec.gov/comments/4-627/4627-14.htm; see also International Association of Small Broker Dealers and
Advisor, available at https://www.sec.gov/comments/4-627/4627-109.pdf. See NIRI Letter, available at
https://www.sec.gov/comments/4-627/4627-134.pdf.
122
estimates that 32% of stocks reported on Proposed Form SHO would only have one Manager above the
reporting Threshold A.255 If market participants can ascertain which positions belong to only one
Manager,256 then market participants may seek to orchestrate a short squeeze targeting that particular
manager. Mitigating this risk is the fact that the data provided by Proposed Rule 13f-2, Proposed Form
SHO and the Proposal to Amend CAT, particularly the activity data provided in Proposed Form SHO
may allow the Commission to more quickly determine if a short squeeze occurred. The Commission
could correlate buy-to-cover activity in Proposed Form SHO with price increases to look for signs of a
squeeze. If it appears that a short squeeze may have occurred, the Commission could perform further
analysis using the information in the Proposal to Amend CAT to attempt to determine the market
participants involved in the squeeze.257 Increased risk of detection may deter some market participants
from seeking to orchestrate a short squeeze. The Reporting Threshold, aggregating the data by security
prior to releasing it to the public, and the delay in releasing the data to the public are all designed to help
mitigate this effect. Only Managers whose positions surpass the threshold would be required to report –
limiting the number of Managers whose information would be aggregated and made public.
Despite not releasing Managers’ identities to the public, the nature and the position size
thresholds that underlie publicly released information may lead to the risk of Managers being identified
by the public. Focusing on stocks in which market participants can ascertain that only one Manager filed,
combined with a Manager’s posts on social media, or other means, such as information discovered by a
private investigator, market participants may be able to identify which Manager holds the short
position.258 As such, the limited number of reporters potentially risks shining a spotlight on the few

255 Based on analysis of Form SH data. See supra note 80 (for information on the methodology and caveats of
using Form SH data).
256 In many cases identifying which publicly released reports had only one Manager reporting may not be
difficult. For example, if the total short positions reported in security with a market capitalization greater than $400
Million (where the $10 Million dollar threshold is hit before the percent of shares outstanding threshold) are less
than $20 million then market participants may be able to reasonably presume that there is only one Manager
reporting a position.
257 Identifying the market participants involved in fraud solely from CAT data is currently difficult, but would
become less so when the CAIS system becomes fully operational.
258 For example, one issuer, upon learning that short sellers had taken a large short position in the issuer,
reportedly sent a letter to all shareholders urging them to request physical custody of their shares from their brokerdealers in an apparent attempt to disrupt securities lending which supports short selling. This strategy appeared to
123
managers with large short positions. However, the delay before publicly releasing the data means that the
information would not be as fresh and thus may not as accurately reflect current short positions.
259 Thus,
if market participants sought to orchestrate a short squeeze based on the aggregated information made
public based on the Proposed Form SHO data that the squeeze could fail if the short positions that are the
target of the squeeze no longer exist. This may reduce the likelihood that market participants seek to
orchestrate squeezes based on the publicly released Proposed Form SHO data which may help protect
short sellers who maintain short positions for a longer horizon and thus may still hold the positions
reported on the aggregated Proposed Form SHO data. Based on analysis using Form SH data, the
Commission expects that most, but not all, of the short positions leading to reporting on Proposed Form
SHO would be closed by the time that the aggregated Proposed Form SHO data is released.
260
Having detailed information about which Managers currently hold large and unhedged short
positions may also help the Commission observe potential systemic risk concerns regarding short selling.
Large and concentrated short positions have the potential to increase systemic risk. As discussed
previously, unlike a long transaction, short selling places an investor at risk of losing significantly more
than their initial investment should the value of the underlying asset increase significantly. Even
temporary spikes in asset value can lead to significant losses – by triggering margin calls or even positon
liquidations if capital requirements cannot be met.
261 If the value of an underlying asset increases, a short
seller may be required to post additional collateral to meet margin requirements. If the investor is unable

work initially as the share price increased by nearly 50% in the subsequent three weeks. The issuer also hired
private investigators to determine who was behind the short selling and filed suit against a well-known short seller.
The issuer, however, entered bankruptcy less than a year later. The bankruptcy courts ruled that the issuer defrauded
investors. See G. Weiss, The Secret World of Short-Sellers, Business Week, 62a (August 5, 1996). See also Owen
A. Lamont, Go Down Fighting: Short Sellers vs. Firms, 2 (1) THE REV. OF ASSET PRICING STUDIES 1 -30 (2012).
259 Analysis of Form SH data found that short positions were held at or above the $10 million or 2.5%
thresholds only for an average of 9.85 days after the end of each month. See note 80 (for information on the
methodology and caveats of using Form SH data).
260 See infra note 265 (for a discussion on the Commission’s estimates on how long Managers hold short
positions). See also infra note 269 (for more information on short sellers that do hold their positions for long
periods of time).
261 Due to imperfect information and market frictions, a short seller who “does not have access to additional
capital when security prices diverge … may be forced to prematurely unwind the position and incur a loss[.]” See,
e.g., Mark Mitchell, Todd Pulvino, and Erik Stafford, Limited Arbitrage in Equity Markets, 57 (2) THE J. OF FIN.
551-584 (2002). See also, e.g., Andrei Shleifer and Robert W. Vishny, The Limits of Arbitrage, 52 (1) THE J. OF
FIN. 35 – 55 (1997) and Denis Gromb and Dimitri Vayanos, Limits of Arbitrage, 2 (1) ANNU. REV. FIN. ECON. 251-
275 (2010) (citations therein).
124
to do so, then the investor’s broker-dealer may liquidate the investor’s position with existing collateral
leading to steep losses for the short seller. Consequently, it may be more difficult for a short seller to ride
out periods of turbulence than a long seller.
Manager level short position data of individuals with large short positions could allow the
Commission to better observe these positions and more appropriately respond to any market events that
arise. For example, in the context of the meme stock phenomenon in January 2021, if the Commission
had the Proposed Form SHO data at the time then it would have had a clearer view as to which Managers
held large short positions prior to the volatility event and thus which Managers were at greatest risk of
suffering significant harm from a short squeeze.
All the effects, positive and negative, associated with the data collected by Proposed Rule 13f-2
discussed in this section would be limited by several factors. First, upon filing Proposed Form SHO
would be checked for technical errors but not for the accuracy of the position and activity data in the
Form. If Managers make mistakes in their calculations, such mistakes would reduce the utility of the data.
However, the amendment process would require Managers to amend filings when they discover errors,
thus promoting the accuracy of the information. The Commission also recognizes that there are
limitations to Proposed Rule 205. For example, broker-dealers would be required to mark transactions as
buy to cover based only on information that they currently have access to and they would not be required
to net such activity across the same customer’s accounts at that broker-dealer. This may miss some buy to
cover trades that may occur if a Manager uses a broker to execute transactions and a prime broker (or
prime brokers) to manage positions. In this case, the broker-dealer managing the purchase of shares
would not necessarily know that the buy is actually a buy to cover and would thus not mark the trade as
such. The current proposal may also miss transactions that may occur if a Manager uses multiple accounts
at the same broker-dealer to trade.
2. Effects on stock price efficiency
The Commission believes that the Proposals may have uncertain effects on stock price
efficiency.262 The uncertain effects on price efficiency come because increased transparency generally
 262 See infra Part VIII.E.1 (for additional discussion of the effect of the Proposals on efficiency).
125
increases efficiency whereas increased transparency could also discourage investors from gathering
information – which harms price efficiency. This section discusses both the concept of price efficiency
and the positive and negative impacts that the Proposals may have on price efficiency.
The publicly released aggregated data from Proposed Form SHO would provide new information
to market participants about the aggregate activities of some short sellers –with a planned lag of
approximately fourteen days from the end of the filing deadline.263 Existing short selling data, such as the
FINRA short interest data, is timelier than the potential data from the Proposed Rule 13f-2 and Proposed
Form SHO, and it includes short interest for all short sales known to clearing broker-dealers but does not
provide the Commission or the public daily information about short sellers’ activities.
There is likely significant overlap between the information about stock fundamentals contained in
FINRA short interest data and in the data that would be aggregated from Proposed Form SHO filings.
However, the information in Proposed Form SHO filings focuses on Managers and indicates whether
positions are fully or partially hedged, and provides daily net changes in positions. Thus, the Proposed
Rule 13f-2 and Proposed Form SHO would increase the information available to investors about bearish
sentiment in the market. For example, the information on the proportion of short interest made up of
Managers with substantial positions, how much of those positions are fully or partially hedged, and the
activity information would allow market participants an enhanced view of short interest and provide
insight on changes in short interest between short interest reports. Further, the use of the last settlement
day of the month as the reference month for the Proposed Form SHO reports would allow for a direct
comparison of the Proposed Form SHO data to the FINRA short interest data. With FINRA short interest
as a reference point, the activity data may then provide insight to market participants about changes in
total short interest from FINRA short interest report to FINRA short interest report. For example, market
participants could potentially use the data on positions’ changes to correlate periods of significant
increases or decreases in short positions with corporate events or announcements to gather a more precise
 263 See supra Part III.C (for more information on the delay of public dissemination of Proposed Form SHO
data).
126
view of how the market views corporate actions or events and which events contributed to the final short
interest tally at the end of the month.
Increased information may increase price efficiency. As such, the proposed publication of the
aggregated Proposed Form SHO data represents new information that market participants could use to
value stocks – increasing stock price efficiency. Price efficiency (also known as market efficiency) refers
to how accurately prices reflect available information relevant to the value of the asset.264 For example,
this information may allow market participants to more effectively make trading decisions and manage
risk – increasing price efficiency. Although, the majority of Managers’ short positions would be closed by
the time the aggregated data from Proposed Form SHO would be made public due to the lag in reporting
and public dissemination, a portion of the short positions would still be open.
265 While the market reacts
to unexpected short interest changes,266 the ability to understand short interest and short interest changes
should be additive information that would be reflected in prices upon publication. However, the increase
in price efficiency from the publication of aggregated Proposed Form SHO data is likely to be limited due
to the delay in publication.
The Proposals may also improve price efficiency if they mitigate fraud as discussed in Part
VIII.D.1. Fraud is inherently non-efficient trading and harms price efficiency because a fraudster’s motive
is to create a deviation of a firm’s value from fundamentals and to profit from this deviation. Thus, to the
extent that fraudulent trading, such as short and distort campaigns, are limited by regulator’s access to the
data provided by Proposed Form SHO, the Proposed Rule 13f-2 would result in improved price
efficiency.
On the other hand, Proposed Rule 13f-2 may harm price efficiency by increasing the cost of short
selling. Academic studies, both theoretical and empirical, have shown that when short selling becomes
 264 See, e.g., Eugene Fama, Efficient Capital Markets II, 46(5) J. FIN. 1575-1617 (1991).
265 The Commission estimates that the median number of days that the short position is held above the
threshold after the end of the month is 0, while the average number of days that a short positon is held above the
threshold is 9.85 (suggesting that the majority of positions will be closed. Some are held longer than the delay in
reporting).
266 See, e.g., A. Senchack and L. Starks, Short-Sale Restrictions and Market Reaction to Short-Interest
Announcements, J. OF FIN. AND QUANTITATIVE ANALYSIS 177-194 (1993).
127
more costly, stock prices are less reflective of fundamental information both because costly short selling
makes trading on information difficult, and because costly short selling dissuades investors from
collecting information in the first place.267
Proposed Rule 13f-2 affects the value of short selling in four ways: Compliance costs, revealing
short sellers’ information, potentially revealing short sellers trading strategies, and increasing the threat of
retaliation. First, the compliance costs associated with reporting large short positions are a direct increase
in the cost of short selling.268 As many Managers have underlying investors, these costs would likely be
passed on to end consumers in the form of lower returns due to limiting the strategies that Managers could
profitably employ.
Second, publicly releasing the aggregated Proposed Form SHO data has the potential to reveal
some of the information that short sellers may have acquired through fundamental research. Revealing
this information to the market may cause prices to adjust to the information that the short seller uncovered
before the short seller is able to acquire their full desired position – decreasing the profits to acquiring the
information and providing less incentive to produce fundamental research. Thus, the publication of
Proposed Form SHO data represents an additional cost to short selling in the form of potentially lower
profitability for trading on negative information. That the data is aggregated and released on a lag
mitigates this cost somewhat but does not eliminate it. To avoid price impacts, a short seller seeking to
build a sizeable position in a firm generally does so by building up small positions over time until the
desired position is accumulated.269 Because short positions can take a long time to accumulate even with

267 See, e.g., supra note 242. See Dixon (2021). See Edward Miller, Risk, Uncertainty, and Divergence of
Opinion, 32 (4) THE J. OF FIN. (1977). See Robert F. Stambaugh, Jianfeng Yu, and Yu Yuan, The Short of It:
Investor Sentiment and Anomalies, 104 (2) J. OF FIN. ECON. 288- 302 (2012).
268 See infra Part VIII.E.2 (for a discussion of how these direct costs may affect investors in funds that employ
short selling).
269 See Albert S. Kyle, Continuous Auctions and Insider Trading, ECONOMETRICA: J. OF THE ECONOMETRIC
SOCIETY 1315- 1335 (1985). See Kirilenko, Andrei, Albert S. Kyle, Mehrdad Samadi, and Tugkan Tuzun, The
Flash Crash: High‐Frequency Trading in an Electronic Market, 72 (3) THE J. OF FIN. 967 -998 (2017) (for a
discussion of this type of trading); Amir E. Khandani and Andrew W. Lo., What Happened to the Quants in August
2007? Evidence from Factors and Transactions Data, 14 (1) J. OF FIN. MARKETS, 1 -46 (2011) (for a discussion of
what happens when investors build large positions without properly smoothing their trading). Well-known short
seller Gabe Plotkin testified that his firm had built and maintained a short position in GameStop for over 5 years
prior to the significant volatility experienced in January 2021. See Game Stopped? Who Wins and Loses When
Short Sellers, Social Media, and Retail Investors Collide (Hearing), U.S. House of Representatives Committee
Repository (“Game Stopped Hearing”), available at
128
a lag the information motivating the trades being reported may not be stale. While aggregation limits the
precision with which markets can estimate an individual short seller’s motivation, it does not eliminate
it.270 Additionally, the threshold may protect short sellers with smaller short positions from having the
information in their trades revealed. In contrast, the Proposed Rule 13f-2 may highlight very large
positions potentially increasing the likelihood that some of the information contained in the trades of large
short sellers would be acted on by other market participants before the short seller could acquire their
optimal position. Thus, the Commission expects that publication of aggregated Proposed Form SHO data
would still represent a cost to short selling.271 Relatedly, Managers who build short positions that exceed
the threshold may choose to execute the positions that are beyond the threshold at a pace that is faster
than what they would have done otherwise to attempt to build their optimal position before information is
disclosed and copy-cat investors are able to trade based on the reported data. Executing transactions at a
faster speed than would be optimal imposes increased transaction costs on Managers than they would
have incurred otherwise.272 Additionally, trading faster than is optimal may harm price efficiency by
leading prices to over-react to the aggressive trading.273
Third, the Proposed Form SHO data may provide information about the specific trading strategies
of certain short sellers. For example, in the case where there is only one filer and market participants
know this, then market participants could attempt to use the activity data to extract information about the
specific trading strategies that short sellers use to implement their trades. Market participants could then
try to identify similar patterns in the live data and alter their trading strategies to attempt to profit from
any predictability in the short seller’s trading strategy. This behavior would further limit the benefit to

https://docs.house.gov/Committee/Calendar/ByEvent.aspx?EventID=111207; See also Juliet Chung and Melvin
Capital Says It Was Short GameStop Since 2014, Wall Street Journal (Feb 17, 2021). In the Form SH data, 25% of
positions were held above the proposed Threshold A for at least a month. See supra note 80.
270 See supra Part VIII.D.1 (for a discussion of how market participants may be able to uncover individual
identities).
271 Consistent with this expectation, research on similar regulations in Europe has documented a similar effect
there. See Market Impact of Short Sale Position Disclosures, Copenhagen Economics: Office of Global Research
and Markets at the MFA, available at https://www.copenhageneconomics.com/publications/publication/marketimpact-of-short-sale-position-disclosures.
272 See supra note 269; see also Kyle (1985).
273 See, e.g., Albert S. Kyle and Anna A. Obizhaeva, Large Bets and Stock Market Crashes (March 22, 2019),
available at https://ssrn.com/abstract=2023776 or https://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2023776.
129
short selling as it may allow other market participants to game the short seller’s trading behavior –
increasing the cost of implementing short selling trading strategies. While the Commission acknowledges
this risk, it believes that the proposed design of the published activity data would significantly limit this
risk. In particular, the proposed netting of short selling activity across increases and decreases in short
position along with showing only one number per day per security would mask much of the trading
behavior of individual short sellers while still providing information about changes in bearish sentiment
in the market. For example, Managers may build or reduce a short position using complex trading
strategies potentially involving transactions on both sides of the market. By netting trading activity and
aggregating across Form SHO filers, market participants viewing the publicly reported Form SHO data
would still get a view of changes in bearish sentiment while keeping Manager specific trading strategies
hidden.
The public disclosure requirements may also expose Managers to retaliation by other market
participants.274 Although aggregating the data before releasing it to the public on a delay would provide
some protection to Managers from having their identities uncovered, in certain cases motivated market
participants may still be able to identify individual investors. For instance, in the case that the aggregated
short position reported to the public is just above the threshold, one could reasonably assume that only
one Manager has a short position large enough to report, which may facilitate identifying who that
manager is. The Commission believes that even if the probability of identifying individual short sellers is
low, the threat of this additional exposure to retaliation may disincentivize short selling. However, the
Commission believes that on balance aggregating the data prior to publishing it provides appropriate
protection of short sellers’ identities and trading strategies.
If specific Managers are identified, issuers might take retaliatory action against individual short
sellers through lawsuits and by forwarding information to regulators in attempts to precipitate regulatory
investigations, through claims in the media, or by applying pressure on the shorting firm through business

274 See 2011 MFA Letter, supra note 49; Owen A. Lamont, Go Down Fighting: Short Sellers vs. Firms, 2(1)
THE REV. OF ASSET PRICING STUDIES 1 -30 (2012); Lorien Stice-Lawrence, Yu Ting Wong, Yu Ting Forester
Wong, and Wuyang Zhao, Short Squeezes After Short-Selling Attacks (November 2021), available at
https://ssrn.com/abstract=3849581 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3849581.
130
relationships that may exist outside of trading.275 There is also evidence that when short sellers’ positions
become public, market participants strive to orchestrate short squeezes and are successful a significant
fraction of the time.276 Short sellers often face lawsuits when they take their information public or their
identities otherwise become known – regardless of whether the information the short sellers brought forth
was legitimate.277 Some issuers have even been known to hire private investigators in an attempt to
uncover the identities of individuals short selling their stock.278 Some short sellers have also expressed
that they have experienced threats to their personal safety after their short positions were revealed.279
Lastly, even if the identities of the individuals reporting short selling data remain unknown,
publicly disclosing that Managers have amassed large aggregate short positions may expose the Managers
to increased risk of being the target of predatory strategies such as short squeezes. The risk of short
squeeze increases if market participants are able to identify the individuals with large short positions as
discussed in Part VIII.D.1. In this case they may be able to better estimate the capital constraints of the
short seller to identify the likelihood of a squeeze being successful.
Because reporting information on Proposed Form SHO increases the costs of short selling, it is
possible that short sellers may strategically select short positions to have an average short position just
below the threshold that requires reporting. However, the risk of this is mitigated by the way in which the
threshold is constructed, which could make trading around the threshold more costly. For example,
because the threshold is not based on the position at the end of the month, Managers would not be able to
simply reduce their positions at the end of the month to avoid reporting. Instead, Managers would need to
maintain a position below the Reporting Thresholds throughout the month to avoid reporting. The size of
a short position is often related to the expected magnitude of the short seller’s negative information with

275 See 2011 letter from Security Traders Association of New York on the Short Sale Reporting Study
Required by Dodd-Frank Act Section 417(a)(2), available at https://www.sec.gov/comments/4-627/4627-155.pdf.
276 See supra note 274, Stice-Lawrence, Wong, and Zhao (2021) and Lamont (2021).
277 See Owen A. Lamont, Go Down Fighting: Short Sellers vs. Firms, 2 (1) THE REV. OF ASSET PRICING
STUDIES 1 -30 (2012).
278 Id.
279 See Lamont (2012) supra note 258; Game Stopped Hearing, supra note 269 (CEO of Melvin Capital LP
stated that after his short positions were made known, Reddit users made posts and sent personal text messages that
were laced with anti-Semitic slurs and threats of physical harm to him and others.).
131
revelations of larger negative information being associated with larger short positions.280 Consequently, to
the extent that Managers may choose to select otherwise sub-optimal short positions to avoid reaching the
reporting threshold, Proposed Rule 13f-2 and Proposed Form SHO could result in a sub-optimal
allocation of capital and may harm price efficiency. To this end some have argued that stock prices can be
viewed as a weighted average of investor sentiment, if short sellers limit their positions to avoid
disclosure requirements, then stock prices may skew towards being overvalued.281
For these reasons, the Commission believes that the Proposals may increase the costs of short
selling and potentially dissuade investors from engaging in fundamental research and the total amount of
short selling may decrease, though the Commission has designed the Proposals to mitigate these risks. To
the extent that fundamental research decreases, price efficiency could be harmed as prices would not
necessarily reflect all available relevant information, only that portion that had been discovered by
investors performing fundamental research. Additionally, Proposed Rule 13f-2 could dissuade options
market makers from holding large short positions and providing liquidity in options markets and, thus,
could harm price efficiency in equity markets.
282

280 See, e.g., supra note 269; Kyle (1985).
281 See, e.g., supra note 267, Miller (1977); Letters on the Short Sale Reporting Study Required by DoddFrank Act Section 417(a)(2) from Investment Company Institute (hereafter “ICI Letter”) available at
https://www.sec.gov/comments/4-627/4627-141.pdf; Data Explorers Letter; SIFMA Letter available at
https://www.sec.gov/comments/4-627/4627-143.pdf (about transaction marking leading to less short selling). In
contrast, some argue that short selling itself increases the value of assets as it provides demand for securities lending
and allows owners to collect securities lending fees. From this perspective, restricting short selling may decrease
stock prices by restricting the demand for securities loans. See Darrell Duffie, Nicolae Garleanu, and Lasse Heje
Pedersen, Securities Lending, Shorting, and Pricing, 66 (2-3) J. OF FIN. ECON. 307-339 (2002). The Commission
does not believe that this effect is the predominate effect of short selling on asset prices, because the average fee
earned from securities lending is usually very small relative to the average long term stock returns. Thus, it appears
that other economic effects tend to dominate the relationship between short selling and stock prices and that on net
short selling restrictions lead to stock overvaluation. See also OTC Markets, Provable Markets, SIFMA, and Chester
Spatt letters (responding to FINRA’s regulatory notice 21-19 arguing that short selling is vital to price efficiency),
available at https://www.finra.org/rules-guidance/notices/21-19#. In contrast, others have argued that absent
disagreement, costly short selling can help correct over-pricing by preventing the uninformed (but not informed
traders) from transacting. This skews the distribution of traders in the market towards being more informed meaning
that markets learn more from each trade and prices adjust more quickly when uninformed traders do not trade. See
Douglas Diamond and Robert E. Verrecchia, Constraints On Short-Selling And Asset Price Adjustment To Private
Information, 18 (2) J. OF FIN. ECON. 277-311 (1987).
282 See infra Part VIII.D.3. Research has found a that options play an important informational role in stock
price discovery, therefore reductions in liquidity in the options market can reduce the price efficiency in the equity
market. See also David Easley, Maureen O’hara, and Pulle Subrahmanya Srinivas, Option Volume and Stock Prices:
Evidence on Where Informed Traders Trade, 52 (2), THE JOURNAL OF FINANCE 431-465 (1998).
132
As with the discussion in Part VIII.D.1, many of the economic effects articulated in this section
relating to the reporting of Proposed Form SHO could be limited to the extent that the data reported in
Proposed Form SHO contains factual errors. The EDGAR system would check the data for technical
errors, however the accuracy of the data is dependent on accurate and complete data entry by filers. Thus,
the data reported in Proposed Form SHO could contain errors. To the extent that these errors exist and
meaningfully affect the usability of the data, the value of the data and the economic benefits and costs
associated with collecting the data would be limited. Additionally, the benefits and costs are lessened by
the proposed delay in the publication of the data. Furthermore, the proposed data would only be available
for those securities with Managers who have short positions over the threshold, which in some cases may
not be representative of all short positions, and the number of reporting Managers may change from
month to month.
3. Effect on market liquidity
The effect of the Proposals on liquidity is uncertain. Part V.4.ii, discusses the possibility that
Proposed Rule 13f-2 and Proposed Form SHO may harm price efficiency by dissuading investors from
pursuing fundamental research and that Proposed Rule 13f-2 and Proposed Form SHO along with
Proposed Rule 205 and the Proposal to Amend CAT may help price efficiency by increasing transparency
with respect to the actions of large short sellers. To the extent that the Proposals improve price efficiency,
this could also indirectly improve liquidity because market makers would be subject to less mispricing
risk. However to the extent that Proposed Rule 13f-2 and Proposed Form SHO harm price efficiency, the
opposite may be true. Mispricing risk leads to lower liquidity because market makers must be
compensated, in the form of wider bid ask spreads, for the potential that there is information relevant to
the firm that has not yet been discovered and may affect prices. Thus if the rule harms price efficiency it
may also harm liquidity. The opposite is also true. To the extent that the Proposals enhance market
efficiency they may also enhance liquidity by mitigating mispricing risk.
Additionally, in the event that an options market maker might have a short position close to the
Reporting Thresholds, the Proposed Rule 13f-2 could dissuade the option market maker from increasing
their short position, which may harm their willingness to provide liquidity in options markets.
133
Alternatively, Proposed Rule 13f-2 might not result in option market makers who exceed the Reporting
Thresholds changing their positons, in which case the costs of filing Form 13f-2 (and other compliance
costs) could result in wider spreads if the compliance costs are large enough.
4. Effect on Corporate Decision Making
The Commission believes that Proposed Rule 13f-2 and Proposed Form SHO could have mixed
effects on corporate decision making. On the one hand, research suggests that corporate managers learn
from market reactions to announcements.283 Consequently, Proposed Rule 13f-2 and Proposed Form
SHO may provide corporate managers with additional feedback on their decisions. For instance, projects
often take some time to design and implement after announcement, consequently, even with the lag in the
reporting time for the Proposed Form SHO data, a corporate manager could review the data around
significant announcements to better understand how the market may view a particular project or
announcement. If large short positions are built shortly after a corporate announcement, then this may
give the signal to corporate management that the market views that announcement negatively which may
help a manager modify or reverse poor decisions. From this perspective the Proposals may enhance
corporate manager decision making.
In contrast, short sellers, and particularly large short sellers with the resources to perform
fundamental research, serve as valuable external monitors of management. If a corporate manager knows
that short sellers are monitoring their actions and financial statements and are willing to expose wrongdoing, then they are less likely to engage in fraud or do other things that may hurt the value of the
company. Historically, short sellers have, through doing research, uncovered fraudulent behavior.284

283 See, e.g., James B Kau, James S. Linck, and Paul H. Rubin, Do Managers Listen to the Market?,14 (4) J.
OF CORPORATE FIN. 347-362 (2008).
284 See, e.g., A. Dyck, A. Morse, and L. Zingales, Who Blows the Whistle on Corporate Fraud?, 65(6) THE J.
OF FIN. 2213-2253 (2010) (using a large sample of fraud cases between 1996 and 2004, the authors find that short
sellers uncovered the fraud in nearly 15% of cases.). See also Cassell Bryan-Low and Suzanne McGee, Enron Short
Seller Detected Red Flags in Regulatory Filings, THE WALL STREET J. (Nov. 5, 2001) (discussing an Enron short
seller that detected red flags reviewing, among other things, the company’s SEC filings), available at
https://www.wsj.com/articles/SB1004916006978550640, retrieved from Factiva database. Cf. Nessim Mezrahi,
Stephen Sigrist, and Carolina Doherty, More Securities Class Actions May Rely on Short-Seller Data, Portfolio
Media (January 10, 2022) (authors’ “analysis of 131 Rule 10b-5 securities class actions indicates that plaintiffs
continue to rely on short-seller research to substantiate fraud-on-the-market claims.”), available at
https://www.law360.com/articles/1453499/ more-securities-class-actions-may-rely-on-short-seller-data.
134
Academic research has also shown that even the threat of short selling serves to discipline managers.285
As discussed in Parts V.4.i and V.4.ii, Proposed Rule 13f-2 may discourage Managers from performing
fundamental research. If less fundamental research is performed by short sellers, then their role as
monitors of the firm diminishes. Less monitoring could lead to higher incidences of fraud as managers
feel that the likelihood of being caught goes down.286 Thus, to the extent that Proposed Rule 13f-2 and
Proposed Form SHO discourage fundamental research it may lead to both an increase in the total amount
of corporate fraud in the economy as well as decrease the fraction of frauds that are discovered by
investors.
5. Effect of Certain Electronic Filing and Dissemination Requirements
Proposed Rule 13f-2 and Proposed Form SHO would require the short position and activity
disclosures to be filed on the Commission’s EDGAR system using a structured, machine-readable data
language. In particular, the rule and Form would require Proposed Form SHO to be filed on EDGAR in a
custom XML-based data language specific to that Form (“custom XML,” here “Proposed Form SHOspecific XML”). The XML Schema for Proposed Form SHO-specific XML would incorporate validations
of certain data fields on the Form to help ensure consistent formatting and completeness.287 While the
field validations would act as an automated form completeness check when a Manager files a Proposed
Form SHO, the field validations would not be designed to verify the accuracy of the information filed in
Proposed Form SHO filings. EDGAR would subsequently aggregate the reported information at the
equity security level and release the aggregated data to the public, either on EDGAR or on the
Commission’s website.

285 See, e.g., Massimo Massa, Bohui Zhang and Hong Zhang, The Invisible Hand of Short Selling: Does Short
Selling Discipline Earnings Management? 28 (6) THE REV. OF FIN. STUDIES 1701-1736 (2015).
286 See, e.g., Paul Povel, Rajdeep Singh, and Andrew Winton, Booms, Busts, and Fraud, 20 (4) THE REV. OF
FIN. STUDIES 1219 -1254 (2007) (linking variations in monitoring intensity to the incidence rate of financial fraud.).
287 See supra Part III.B.4. Field validations are restrictions placed on each data element which would not
allow a filer to file a form if there are certain technical errors in critical fields. If a Proposed Form SHO were to
include, for example, letters instead of numbers in a field requiring only numbers, it would be flagged as a technical
error, at which point the filer would either be unable to file the Form (if completed using the fillable web form
provided by EDGAR) or the filing would be rejected (if directly filed in EDGAR in Proposed Form SHO-specific
XML). To complete the filing, the filer would need to correct the error and re-file.
135
The Commission believes these requirements would incrementally augment the various effects of
the short position and activity disclosures discussed herein by enhancing the accessibility, usability, and
quality of the Proposed Form SHO disclosures (for use by the Commission) and the aggregate securitylevel disclosures (for use by the public). By requiring a structured machine-readable data language and a
centralized filing location (EDGAR) for the disclosures on Proposed Form SHO, the Commission would
be able to access and download large volumes of Proposed Form SHO disclosures in an efficient manner.
Similarly, the provision of the aggregated security-level information at a centralized, publicly
accessible location in a structured, machine-readable data language, would enable investors and other
public data users to download the aggregated information directly, and the data could then be analyzed
using various tools and applications. If the security-level information were not available at a centralized
location in a structured, machine-readable language, data users seeking to analyze the information using
tools and applications would need to search for, extract, and structure the security-level short position and
activity information, or pay a third-party vendor to do so.
The Commission believes requiring the short position and activity disclosures to be filed in
Proposed Form SHO-specific XML would facilitate more thorough review and analysis of the reported
short sale disclosures by the Commission, which would increase the efficiency and effectiveness with
which the Commission could identify manipulative short selling strategies—which may also serve as a
deterrent to would be manipulators and thus may help prevent manipulation—and observe systemic risk.
The Commission believes that this outcome would benefit investors by facilitating the Commission’s
observation of short selling and would thus help protect investors and ensure the sufficiency of
information related to short selling in the market.
The proposed requirement for short sale disclosures to be filed on EDGAR in Proposed Form
SHO-specific XML would result in additional incremental compliance costs on filing Managers. These
direct compliance costs are detailed in a subsequent section.288 Moreover, to the extent these incremental
compliance costs further chill the incidence of short-selling, the EDGAR and Proposed Form SHO-
 288 See infra Part VIII.D.7.
136
specific XML requirements would increase the likelihood of the indirect costs that are discussed
elsewhere in this section.
6. Effect on the Securities Lending Market
As discussed in parts V.4.i and V.4 ii, the Proposals would increase the cost of short selling,
particularly large short positions – potentially leading to less overall short selling. As discussed in Part
V.3.i, short sellers must borrow shares to open a short position. When investors borrow shares they pay a
borrowing fee to the owner of the share. These fees can represent a significant source of revenue for
pension funds, mutual funds, and others who engage in securities lending.289 Consequently, to the extent
that the Proposals discourage short selling they may also lower overall portfolio returns, including for
institutional investors that engage in securities lending.290
7. Direct Compliance Costs
The Commission believes that there would be direct costs associated with Proposed Rule 13f-2,
Proposed Form SHO, Proposed Rule 205, and the Proposal to Amend CAT. These costs include:
Managers reporting position and activity data; broker-dealers updating CAT reporting processes;
amendments to Regulation SHO; and the Commission processing and releasing the Manager reports
through EDGAR.
The Commission’s estimates for Managers’ collective direct compliance costs to capture and
report the information required for Proposed Form SHO range from $54,083,087 to $156,309,500. This
range reflects estimates for the number of managers that would be subject to the rule’s reporting
requirement, their data capture costs, and their reporting costs. The Commission estimates that between
346 and 1,000 managers would be required to file Proposed Form SHO. We based our lower estimate on
the number of Form SH filers above Threshold A. The actual number of reporting Managers would likely
be higher than our low estimate, because Managers that exercise investment discretion with respect to
 289 See supra note 232.
290 Commenters on the Short Sale Reporting Study Required by Dodd-Frank Act Section 417(a)(2) argue that
increased public short selling disclosure may result in reduced short selling, thereby lowering revenues to
institutions that maintain long positions in equities for extended periods (such as pension funds). See, e.g., 2011
Letter from Alternative Investment Management Association, available at https://www.sec.gov/comments/4-
627/4627-138.pdf.
137
accounts holding Section 13(f) securities having an aggregate fair market value of less than $100 million
were not required to file Form SH,291 and lower than our high estimate.292 Based on this estimated range,
the Commission estimates that the collective cost for updating systems to capture the required information
would be between $36,017,735 and $104,097,500293 and the annual total cost for reporting managers
would be between $18,065,352 and $52,212,000.
294 Costs could be underestimated to the extent that
wages are higher than those used in the estimation. The initial costs are likely higher than the lower bound
estimates as Managers who may not file Proposed Form SHO on a monthly basis would still incur the
initial costs. Furthermore, because Manager short positions are fluid, some Managers would not be
required to file a report every month when they fall below the reporting threshold. As a result of this
fluidity, ongoing costs could be lower than our estimates. Moreover, to the extent that the number of
reportable short positions varies across Managers, the costs to track and report those positions would also
vary by Manager. And initial costs could also be higher for some Managers who do not currently report to
EDGAR.
The Commission believes that there could be costs in addition to the previously stated costs. The
Commission estimates that filing amendments to Proposed Form SHO may take as long to file as the
initial filing, therefore Managers could also incur additional costs up to $4,351 to file amendments to
Proposed Form SHO.295 These costs may be more common for Managers who do not hold short positions
often and are likely to decrease with time as Managers become more experienced with filing Proposed
 291 See Table I. See also note 80 (for more information on the methodology and caveats of using Form SH
data).
292 Disclosure of Short Sales and Short Positions by Institutional Investment Managers, 73 FR at 61686. (This
estimate is similar to the estimate provided). Proposed Form SHO filers filed weekly reports. As a result, each
reporting manager would file fewer reports because Form SH would be filed monthly. See supra note 124 (for more
information on 1,000 Managers was estimated). However, fewer Managers actually filed Form SH.
293 See supra PRA Table 2 and note 133. The lower range was calculated using 346 Managers. 20 hours per
submission x 346 submissions by Managers each month x 12 months x $217.55 = $18,065,352. The Commission
estimates that 346 Managers would have been required to file Form SH had Form SH be subject to the same $10
million and 2.5% threshold.
294 See supra PRA Table 1 and note 143. The lower range was calculated using 346 Managers.
295 Depending on what amendments are needed the Commission believes that each amendment could take up
to the original 20 hours to complete, at a cost of $217.55 per hour =$4,351. Id. See also Form SHO, Special
Instructions at 4.
138
Form SHO. As part of the filing of Proposed Form SHO, Managers would need to ensure that there is not
duplicative reporting.296 The burden to ensure that there is not duplicative reporting would likely vary by
Manager, as larger Managers with multiple accounts may be more likely to have duplication issues. As
part of updating systems to comply with the reporting requirements of Proposed Rule 13f-2, Managers
must calculate the market value of the trade using the official closing price as of the close of regular
trading hours for the trade settlement date in question, which may not be the fair market value at the time
in which the trade occurred.297 However, the Commission believes that in most cases this would be a
small burden on Managers as the data needed for the calculation would be publicly available and the
Commission believes that Managers may already track the end of day fair market value of short sales.
Even in cases that the reportable equity security is not traded on an exchange, the Commission believes
that Managers may be able to calculate the value of their short positions by using publicly available
closing prices from the OTC Reporting Facility. In circumstances where closing prices of non-reporting
company issuers are not available, the Commission believes the tracking such information would still not
impose a large burden as a Manager can use the price at which they last purchased or sold any share of
that security, which would be readily available to the Manager.
The Commission also believes that there would be costs associated with tracking short positions
in relation to the threshold.298 Particularly, Managers must track their average short positions over the
month to be aware if the maximum position exceeds $10 million as well as if it exceeds the 2.5%
threshold, or in the case of equity securities of a non-reporting company issuer, if it exceeds the $500,000
threshold. However, the Commission believes that the proposed Reporting Thresholds would generally
lower the burden on Managers as fewer Managers would be required to report than if the Commission did
not propose a reporting threshold. For example, the Commission believes that certain types of Managers
 296 See Form SHO, Special Instructions at 6.
297 See Form SHO, Special Instructions at 7. See also PRA Table 2 in Part VI (for an estimate of these burden
hours).
298 Based on the number of registered investment companies reporting short positions and the number of hedge
funds engaged in a strategy including short selling, we preliminary believe that only a small fraction of Managers
would be likely to have monitoring responsibilities pursuant to the proposed rule and, given the proposed reporting
thresholds, an even smaller fraction would be likely to have reporting obligations.
139
would not meet a Reporting Threshold.299 However, the Commission believes that the costs associated
with Proposed Rule 13f-2 and Proposed Form SHO would not be dependent on the type of Manager, with
the exception that Managers who do not currently report to EDGAR may have increased costs associated
with complying with Rule 13f-2. Additionally, certain types of Managers may be less likely to trigger the
threshold, resulting in lower overall costs for these Managers. Using Form SH data, the Commission
estimates that an average of 442 Managers would have been required to file Proposed Form SHO each
month under the threshold in place during temporary rule 10a-3T. However, only 346 Managers would be
required to file under the proposed Threshold A.
300
The Commission understands that the cost of tracking short positions could be higher for certain
types of securities. For example, tracking the short position in an exchange traded fund as a percent of
shares outstanding would be more difficult as the number of shares outstanding changes frequently.
Additionally, Managers who hold short positions in non-reporting company issuers may have difficulty
calculating the value of their position, however Managers may use the last price at which a the Manager
traded even though the price may be stale. The Commission also believes that the cost to track and report
activities information may vary across activity categories. Short selling and buy to cover activities would
likely be the most common forms of reported activities and would therefore account for the majority of
the costs. However, other categories of reportable activity, such as option exercises and assignments,
tender conversions, and seasoned market purchases that reduce or close a short position would be reported
less frequently and may require more attention to file as Managers would have less experience with
reporting such activities.
Requiring Proposed Form SHO to be filed on EDGAR in Proposed Form SHO-specific XML
would not impose significant incremental costs on Managers. We expect most Managers who would be
required to file Proposed Form SHO would likely have experience filing EDGAR forms that use similar
EDGAR Form-specific XML data languages, such as Form 13F. In that regard, we note the process for
 299 See supra Section VIII.C.2 and supra note 185 (for a discussion on why certain types of managers are more
likely to have reporting requirements).
300 See supra Table I. See also supra note 77 (for more information on Form SH data).
140
filing Proposed Form SHO, as well as the XML-based data language used for Proposed Form SHO,
would be similar to the filing process and data language used for Form 13F.301 We expect that Managers
with such experience that choose to file Proposed Form SHO directly in Proposed Form SHO-specific
XML would incur some compliance costs associated with doing so.
302
In addition, Managers would be given the alternate option of filing Proposed Form SHO using a
fillable web form that would render into Proposed Form SHO-specific XML in EDGAR, rather than
filing directly in Proposed Form SHO-specific XML using the technical specifications published on the
Commission’s website. We expect Managers who do not have experience filing Form 13F or other
EDGAR Form-specific XML filings would likely choose this option. In that regard, we note that
Managers (i.e., certain “institutional investment managers” as defined by Section 13(f)(6)(A) of the
Exchange Act, which may include entities such as investment advisers, banks, insurance companies,
broker-dealers, corporations, and pension funds) are only required to file Form 13F if they exercise
investment discretion with respect to accounts holding Section 13(f) securities having an aggregate fair
market value on the last trading day of any month of any calendar year of at least $100 million.
303 Of
Managers that do not have experience filing Form 13F, only a subset are subject to other EDGAR Formspecific XML filing requirements.304 For any Managers that choose to file Proposed Form SHO using a
 301 See EDGAR Filer Manual (Volume II) version 60 (December 2021), at 9-1 (“EDGAR Filer Manual
Volume II”) (describing process for submitting Form-specific XML filings directly to EDGAR); see also Form 13F
XML Technical Specification, available at https://www.sec.gov/edgar/filer-information/current-edgar-technicalspecifications.
302 See supra PRA Table 2 (estimating the ongoing burden for the Proposed Form SHO-specific XML
requirement at two hours per Manager per filing and two hours per amended filing). Assuming 1,000 Managers
filing 12 filings per year would equal 12,000 filings per year, resulting in 24,000 total annual industry burden hours
(12 filings x 1,000 Managers x 2 hours = 24,000) and $6,480,000 in industry costs for filings per year (24,000 hours
* $270 per hour for a programmer = $6,480,000) attributable to the Proposed Form SHO-specific XML requirement.
In addition, based on an estimate of 420 amended filings per year, the total industry cost for the Proposed Form
SHO-specific XML would be $226,800 for amended filings (420 amended filings x 2 hours per amended filing x
$270 per hour = $226,800). As such, the total annual industry cost attributable to the Proposed Form SHO-specific
XML requirement (including amended filings) is $6,706,800 ($6,480,000 for filings + $226,800 for amended filings
= $6,706,800).
303 See 17 CFR 240.13f-1(a).
304 For example, registered brokers or dealers that are subject to the reporting requirements set forth in 17 CFR
240.17h-2T must file Form 17H either electronically or in paper. Those that choose to file electronically must file
Form 17H partially in EDGAR Form-specific XML. Insurance companies may offer variable contracts that are
registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940, and would thus be required to file annual reports on Form NCEN in EDGAR Form-specific XML as well as, in some cases, monthly portfolio information on Form N-PORT in
141
fillable web form, whether or not they have prior experience with filing forms in EDGAR Form-specific
XML, we do not believe the Proposed Form SHO-specific XML requirement (i.e., the requirement to
place the collected information in a fillable web form provided by EDGAR, rather than in an HTML or
ASCII document to be filed on EDGAR as is required for most other EDGAR forms) would impose any
additional compliance costs.305
The Commission is cognizant of the burdens Managers experienced of submitting Form SH in
compliance with temporary Rule 10a-3T and has designed Proposed Rule 13f-2 and Proposed Form SHO
to attempt to reduce those burdens. First, commenters on the temporary Rule 10a-3T stated that the 0.25%
threshold was too low.306 The two-pronged threshold in Proposed Rule 13f-2 is higher than the threshold
in Rule 10a-3T, reducing the number of Managers likely to have a reporting obligation. For example, the
Commission estimates that only 41% of positions reported under Rule 10a-3T would be required to report
given the higher threshold in Proposed Rule 13f-2 and Proposed Form SHO, while still collecting 89% of
the dollar value.307 Additionally the proposed threshold could be less burdensome to assess than the one
in Rule 10a-3T because it requires the Manager to assess whether it is above the threshold on a monthly
basis rather than on each individual day. Second, many commenters believed that weekly reporting was
overly burdensome.308 The short selling information required by Proposed Rule 13f-2 and Proposed Form

EDGAR Form-specific XML. Corporations may make exempt offerings and be required to file Form 1-A, Form C,
or Form D in EDGAR Form-specific XML either in part or in full, depending on the nature of the offering.
305 See 17 CFR 232.101(a)(1)(iv); 17 CFR 232.301; EDGAR Filer Manual Volume II at 5-1 (requiring
EDGAR filers generally to use ASCII or HTML for their filed documents, subject to certain exceptions).
306 See Temporary Rule 10a3-T Comment letters (including Seward & Kissel LLP Letter), available at
https://www.sec.gov/comments/s7-31-08/s73108-43.pdf; MFA Letter, available at
https://www.sec.gov/comments/s7-31-08/s73108-41.pdf; IAA Letter, available at
https://www.sec.gov/comments/s7-31-08/s73108-38.pdf; ICI Letter, available at
https://www.sec.gov/comments/s7-31-08/s73108-47.pdf; SIFMA Letter, available at
https://www.sec.gov/comments/s7-31-08/s73108-52.pdf. See also supra Part III.D.2. (for more information on
Threshold A using Form SH data).
307 See supra Table I: Various Threshold Levels for Monthly Average Positions and Monthly Maximum
Dollar Value. However, the Commission recognizes that Temporary Rule 10a-3T was in effect in 2008-2009 and
the market may be different, particularly the average short position may be larger. Only Managers that exercise
investment discretion with respect to accounts holding Section 13(f) securities having an aggregate fair market value
of at least $100 million were required to file Form SH. Additionally, the data lacked data validation according to the
needs of end user when filed making the data hard to work with.
308 See supra note 306 (the comment letters in note, as well Coalition of Private Investment Companies letter),
available at https://www.sec.gov/comments/s7-31-08/s73108-46.pdf.
142
SHO would be reported less frequently (monthly rather than weekly) and would involve reporting end of
month positions rather than daily positions. Third, Managers would have more time to compile and file
the Proposed Form SHO reports than they had to compile Form SH.
Notwithstanding these cost-reducing differences, the Commission does recognize that other
differences could offset some or all of these cost reductions. In particular, Proposed Rule 13f-2 and
Proposed Form SHO would require reporting additional information such as information on buy-to-cover
activity and other activity that changes short positions. In addition, Proposed Rule 13f-2 and Proposed
Form SHO would require that the information on activity include daily records and not be subject to its
own threshold.309 Also, unlike the Form SH required under Rule 10a-3T, the Proposed Form SHO that
would be required by Proposed Rule 13f-2 would feature an XML Schema that would incorporate
technical validations of certain data fields on the Form, and would flag technical errors and require the
filer to correct the technical errors before successful submission on EDGAR. However, because the field
validations contemplated by Proposed Rule 13f-2 and Proposed Form SHO would be limited to technical
errors (e.g., letters instead of numbers in a field requiring only numbers) that we believe would be
straightforward to resolve, we do not believe such resubmission costs would be significant. Finally, the
rule could impose costs on Managers who were not required to report Form SH because Rule 10a-3T and
Form SH did not apply to Managers that exercise investment discretion with respect to accounts holding
Section 13(f) securities with an aggregate fair market value of less than $100 million.
In connection with Proposed Rule 205, the Commission estimates that broker-dealers would have
an initial technology cost to update order marking systems of $170,000 for each of the 1,218 brokerdealers with a total maximum initial cost to all broker-dealers of $207,060,000. This estimate likely
significantly overstates the actual costs as many broker-dealers use third party order management
systems.
310 In this case the operator of the third party order manager system would update their system
 309 Rule 10a-3T required Managers to report beginning and end of day Short Position, Number of Securities
Sold Short each day if the particular data item exceeded the threshold. See P 3 Final rule 10a-3T, available at
https://www.sec.gov/rules/final/2008/34-58785fr.pdf. However, in analysis of Form SH data intraday short selling
volume could not be examined for Form SH because the data field for “Number of Securities Sold Short” was
populated in only 7% of observations after filters were applied. See supra note 80 for more information on short
volume in Form SH data.
310 See supra PRA Table 4.
143
and then apply it to all customers reducing the cost significantly. The Commission estimates that all but
126 of the broker-dealers use third party order management systems. In this case the direct compliance
costs for these 126 broker-dealers would be $12,420,000. The remaining broker-dealers would likely
incur costs in the form of higher fees from the third party order management firms to account for their
additional costs. However, these would be significantly lower than the costs to adjust a system from
scratch as the costs would be divided among all clients of the third party order management firm.
Additionally, the Commission believes that that some broker-dealers already track their customer’s buy to
cover orders. Therefore, the initial cost from the rule are likely to be lower than the upper bound estimate.
Additionally, the Commission estimates an upper bound that each instance of marking an order
“buy to cover” would take approximately 0.5 seconds, assuming that this takes as long as a short sale
mark took in 2003, which would lead to an ongoing annual burden of 7,107 hours per broker-dealer and a
total burden of 8,652,750 hours.311 This figure is likely an overestimate in light of technological
advancements since 2003. Therefore, the Commission estimates a lower bound for this burden of 721,000
hours or 592 hours per broker-dealer, assuming that computing speed has increased by at least 12 times
since 2007.
312 Further, to the extent that some broker-dealers already track their customer’s buy to cover
orders, the on-going costs of this requirement would be low.
The 25 Plan Participants would face costs associated with the Proposal to Amend CAT, as they
would be required to engage the Plan Processor to modify the Central Repository to accept and process
new short sale data elements on order receipt and origination reports. Additionally the Commission
estimates an external cost of $3,904 per participant or $101,520 total to compensate the Plan Processor for
staff time required to make the initial necessary programming and systems changes.313 However, these
 311 See supra PRA Table 3.
312 According to an industry performance evaluations for server processors, computing speed has increased by
at least 12 times since 2007 (the earliest year in the data). The Commission believes that computing performance
has increased by a greater amount since 2003. The Commission re-estimated the processing burden using a factor of
12 (as a conservative estimate of improvements in processing speed). Dividing the estimated burden per brokerdealer of 7,107 hours by 12 yields a burden per broker-dealer of approximately 592 hours per broker-dealer and a
total burden of 721,063 hours. See Year on Year Performance (for server processors), PassMark Software Pty. Ltd.,
available at https://www.cpubenchmark.net/year-on-year.html.
313 See supra note 143.
144
initial costs could be higher if the Commission underestimated the time and wages necessary for
programming and systems changes for the plan processor to accept and process new data elements.
Furthermore, the Commission believes that Proposal to Amend CAT would not impose additional
ongoing cost to participants beyond those costs already accounted for in existing Paperwork Reduction
Act estimates that apply for Rule 613 and the CAT NMS Plan approval order.314
The Commission believes that the proposed Proposal to Amend CAT would impose a one-time
cost to Industry Members.315 These costs would depend on whether implementing Proposed rules
6.4(d)(ii)(D) and (E) would involve creating additional fields in the order origination report, or if it is
implemented within existing fields.
The Commission recognizes that costs would vary broadly across Industry Members, particularly
depending on whether the Industry Member outsources the provision of an order handling system and
regulatory data reporting to a service provider. In the CAT NMS Plan Approval Order,316 the Commission
identified 126 Industry Members that do not outsource these activities. For these Industry Members,
implementation is likely to require changes both to their order handling systems as well as their regulatory
data reporting systems that produce their CAT reporting data. The Commission estimates that the 126
insourcing Industry members would incur an aggregate one-time cost of $1,890,000 or $15,000
individually to update software and hardware to facilitate reporting the new buy to cover elements to
CAT.317 Additionally, 60 insourcing Industry members would incur an aggregate cost of $900,000 or
$15,000 individually to update systems to facilitate reporting the new bona fide market making exception
elements to CAT.318 However, these cost could be lower if the Commission is overestimating the number
of insourcing industry members, in particular, the additional cost could drive some insourcing industry
members to begin to outsource. The Commission believes that ongoing costs associated with reporting the
newly required information to CAT would already be covered by ongoing cost estimates included in its
 314 See supra Part VII.D.4.a (for more information on costs for CAT Plan Participants).
315 See supra Part VII.C.1 (for a discussion of the PRA burdens associated with the Proposal to Amend CAT).
316 See supra note 172.
317 See supra Part VI.D.4.c (for a breakdown of PRA costs related to the Proposal to Amend CAT).
318 Id.
145
cost estimates for the CAT NMS Plan. The Commission further believes that similar implementation and
ongoing costs would be borne by each of the service providers that provide order handling systems and
regulatory data reporting services to Industry Members that outsource these systems.
For Industry Members that outsource, the Commission believes that implementation costs would
be far lower because the service bureaus that provide them with order handling systems and regulatory
data reporting services would adapt those systems on their customers’ behalf. The Commission estimates
that the 1,092 outsourcing Industry Members would incur a onetime-aggregate expense of $1,092,000 or
$1,000 individually to update hardware and software to facilitate reporting the new buy to cover elements
to CAT.319 Additionally, 44 outsourcing industry members would incur an aggregate one-time cost of
$44,000 or $1,000 individually to update systems to facilitate reporting the new bona fide market making
exception elements to CAT.320 However, these costs could be higher if some current insourcing industry
members begin to outsource as a result of the increased costs, which would lead to an overall reduced cost
for the rule as outsourcing is less costly than insourcing. The Commission believes that the costs of
service bureaus adapting those systems would be passed to their Industry Member customers.
Although, the Proposed Rule 205 and the Proposal to Amend CAT to add buy to cover would
impose costs on broker-dealers who are CAT Reporters, the Commission believes they would be less
costly than previous related proposals, such as the “open/close indicator” in the original CAT NMS plan
proposal. 321 The originally proposed CAT NMS Plan would have included an “open/close indicator,”
which could be used to identify orders buying to cover short positions. However, several commenters
stated that an “open/close indicator” would be overly burdensome, with one commenter stating that such
burdens would be, in part, the result of “the lack of a clear definition of the term [open/close] for equity
transactions,” and the indicator was not adopted.
322 By contrast, Proposed Rule 205 includes a clear
 319 Id.
320 Id.
321 See supra note 101. See also supra Parts VII.C, VII.D.4.b, and VII.4.c.
322 See supra Part V.A (for more discussion on the original CAT NMS Plan proposal that would have included
an “open/close indicator”).
146
definition of when a “buy to cover” indicator would be required to be reported. 323 In addition, reporting
buy to cover on some buy orders is a narrower requirement than reporting an “open/close indicator” on all
buy and sell orders. Specifically, aside from focusing only on some buy orders, Proposed Rule 205 is
designed to rely solely on information within the broker-dealer 324 and the Proposal to Amend CAT would
require reporting on order receipt and order origination reports only.
8. Risk of Circumvention through Derivatives
The Commission believes that the risk that Managers may attempt to circumvent the reporting
requirement by trading derivatives may be high, particularly for stocks with liquid options.325 The risk
may also increase if a robust single-stock futures market develops over time.326 Indeed, Proposed Rule
13f-2 and Proposed Form SHO could be a catalyst for growth in derivatives markets as short sellers look
for new avenues to take the economic equivalent of short positions while avoiding these proposed
disclosures.
The Reporting Thresholds in Proposed Rule 13f-2 are on a Manager’s gross short position in the
equity security itself, and does not included the calculation of derivative positions. Consequently a
Manager seeking to build a large short position while avoiding reporting their positions on Proposed
Form SHO could hold a short position just below a Reporting Threshold and use derivatives to take
positions above that threshold.327 Using derivatives to circumvent the short selling reporting may be
costly. Options tend to be more expensive than equity transactions particularly for less liquid securities.
Additionally some equities do not have listed options. Consequently, the Managers’ desire to avoid the
costs associated with reporting Proposed Form SHO information articulated in Part V.4.i and V.4.ii is

323 See supra note 104.
324 One commenter on the CAT NMS Plan Notice stated that including an “open/close indicator” indicator for
equities would require “involve parties other than CAT Reporters, such as buy-side clients, OMS/EMS vendors, and
others.” See supra note 101.
325 See supra note 202, R. Battalio, and P. Schultz, (2011), Grundy, Lim, and Verwijmeren (2012).
326 See supra note 202, Jiang, Shimizu, and Strong (2019).
327 Recently proposed rule 10B-1 would require reporting of swap positions above a certain threshold.
Prohibition Against Fraud, Manipulation, or Deception in Connection with Security-Based Swaps; Prohibition
against Undue Influence over Chief Compliance Officers; Position Reporting of Large Security-Based Swap
Positions, Exchange Act Release No. 93784; available at https://www.sec.gov/rules/proposed/2021/34-93784.pdf.
There is no reporting requirement for large options positions or other derivatives.
147
balanced against the increased cost of using derivatives such as options to execute a short position. Thus
for some stocks, i.e. those with illiquid or non-existent options, the threat of circumvention through
options may be minimal. However, academic research has shown that investors have used options to
circumvent other short selling restrictions, thus there is a significant risk that there would be some attempt
to circumvent the rule using derivatives, particularly in stocks with liquid options markets.328
E. Efficiency, Competition and Capital Formation
1. Efficiency
Markets function best and are most efficient when all relevant information regarding a security is
known and is incorporated into prices.329 This includes negative information. When negative information
is not tradable, stocks tend to be overpriced leading to an inefficient allocation of capital across the
economy. 330 More efficient prices lead to better economic outcomes for the macro economy as capital
flows into high value projects and out of low value projects. Short sellers have incentive to uncover
negative information and to trade to profit from that information. As discussed in Part V.4.ii, more
transparency in short selling would improve the amount of information that investors have to value a
stock – increasing price efficiency. However, it could also disincentivize fundamental research which
would harm price efficiency by limiting the amount of total information has been discovered. Overall the
impact of the Proposals on price efficiency is uncertain.
Additionally, Rule 205 and the CAT amendment would increase the efficiency with which the
Commission accesses and performs analysis relating to bona-fide market making data or buy to cover
data for regulatory or enforcement purposes. Currently, the Commission does not have an efficient means
to determine buy to cover transactions. The Commission could, in theory, estimate buy to cover
information using existing CAT data. However, constructing positions for a broad set of traders from
CAT is inefficient and due to CAT lacking all information relative to an investor’s position – e.g. options

328 See supra note 202.
329 See Eugene F. Fama, Efficient Capital Markets a Review of Theory and Empirical Work, The Fama
Portfolio 76-121 (2021).
330 See supra note 281.
148
assignments - could result in incomplete results.
331 Additionally, the amendment to CAT would improve
the efficiency of the Commission’s oversight and enforcement of regulations relating to the bona fide
market making exception by providing more efficient access to data on how individual market makers are
using the exception. Currently the Commission must request information about the use of the market
maker exception from specific broker-dealers.332
2. Competition
Investors compete with one another to gather information that they use to enact trading
strategies. Academic research indicates that when short selling is costly, then investors owning the asset
have an advantage in gathering information due to the reduced cost of acting on whatever information that
they gather.333 By increasing the cost of short selling for managers above the Reporting thresholds, as
discussed in Part VIII.D.1 and VIII.D.2, the rule may increase the advantage that investors who own the
asset have over those who do not in terms of gathering information with the overall result being that
investors not owning the asset may experience lower returns relative to those owning the asset due to
increased cost of acting on negative information
Relatedly, fund performance is a key determinate of investor flows. The Commission believes
that the proposal could harm competition for fund flows among Managers who do and do not use short
selling strategies. For instance, managers that are skilled at uncovering negative information may face
additional costs when transacting on this information, potentially leading to lower returns. Thus Managers
specializing in uncovering overpriced stocks may find themselves at a competitive disadvantage relative
to managers who do not use short selling in terms of their ability to compete for fund flows.
The Commission believes that Proposed Rule 205 and the Proposal to Amend CAT would not
alter significantly the competitive landscape for broker-dealer services. For smaller broker-dealers the
direct costs associated with complying with Rule 205 and the CAT amendment would likely be borne by
 331 See supra Parts VIII.C.5.iv and VIII.F.1.i (for further analysis of the use of CAT data to estimate buy to
cover transactions).
332 See supra Parts V.B and Part VIII.C.4 (for a further discussion of the inefficiencies of existing data with
regards to oversight and enforcement of rules relating to bona fide market making).
333 See Dixon (2021), supra note 242.
149
the larger entity that they contract with for the relevant services. Since many of the compliance costs are
fixed, the increased expense to any one smaller broker-dealer would likely be relatively small and come
in the form if increased costs for services from the entity that they contract with.
334 Because larger
broker-dealers enjoy economies of scale, they should be able to absorb the costs associated with
compliance more easily. Consequently, the Commission believes that the effect of Rule 205 and the CAT
amendment would have minor impacts on broker-dealer competition.335
3. Capital formation
One of the primary roles of the securities markets is to allocate capital (money) across the
economy. If investors believe that a company is undervalued then, all else being equal, they will buy that
stock; if many investors buy the stock, the price for that stock will increase – lowering the cost of equity
financing and making funding projects easier for the firm.336 On the other hand, if investors believe that a
company is overvalued then, all else being equal, they will sell or short sell the stock to invest in other
more profitable ventures. If enough investors sell or short the stock, then the stock price will decline. A
lower stock price implies more expensive equity financing and thus a higher weighted average cost of
capital. When stocks are overpriced, they are inherently allocated too much capital, which deprives more
productive ventures from receiving optimal capital and hinders economic progress. Consequently, short
sellers contribute to capital formation by enhancing price efficiency which ensures an optimal allocation
of capital across firms. Thus, to the extent that the Proposals discourage short selling, as discussed in Part
VIII.D.1 and VIII.D.2, it may lead to the overpricing of some stocks and the underpricing of others.337

334 See supra Part VIII.D.7 (for a discussion of direct compliance costs).
335 See also supra note 244, CAT Proposing Release (where the Commission discusses the implementation of
CAT and its effect on broker-dealer competition).
336 A firm’s external cost of finance is known as the weighted average cost of capital (WACC). It is simply
the weighted average of the firm’s cost of equity and the firm’s cost of debt. Cost of equity (COE) is simply the
return required by investors to assume the risks of owning the stock, computed as COE = (dividends per share /
market cap) plus dividend growth rate. In this computation, market cap is simply the number of shares outstanding
multiplied by the current stock price. If the stock price decreases, then mechanically the firm’s COE would go up.
See, e.g., R.A. Brealey, S.C. Myers, F. Allen, and P. Mohanty, Principles of Corporate Finance, Tata McGraw-Hill
Education (2012).
337 See supra note 267, Miller (1977).
150
This mispricing distorts optimal capital formation as it implies that some firms may have a cost of capital
that is relatively too high or too low with respect to that firm’s fundamentals and risk profile.
Additionally, academic research suggests that managers learn from stock price changes, using
them as a way to tap into the ‘wisdom of crowds’ phenomena to improve decisions.338 For instance, if a
firm announces a capital investment or other project, and the stock price moves up or down, then
managers may use this information as a signal about the market’s perception of the value of that project.
Thus stock price reactions may be an input into manager decisions in terms of when and how to invest
capital. To the extent that the rule discourages short selling, it may make it more difficult for managers to
extract signals from stock prices about the value of proposed capital investments – particularly low value
projects as the Proposals my dampen the market’s ability to respond to negative information.
The costs associated with Managers monitoring their short positions for compliance with
reporting Proposed Form SHO along with the negative economic effects detailed in Part VIII.D.1,
VIII.D.2, and VIII.D.7 may harm capital formation, specifically capital formation using convertible debt
if it increases the cost of short selling. Investors may be less inclined to purchase convertible debt if the
cost of hedging that purchase by short selling the security becomes more expensive – through both the
direct and indirect costs associated with Form 13f-2.339 Thus, to the extent that the costs associated with
Proposed Form SHO increase the cost of short selling they may also increase the cost of hedging
convertible debt and may make that form of financing more expensive. This effectively increases the
weighted cost of capital for firms that use convertible debt and may hinder their ability to fund operations,
including new investments.
In contrast, the Proposals may have a positive influence on capital formation if they limit short
selling based fraud. Specifically, in one type of fraud, investors holding convertible debt would short sell
a stock in an attempt to drive down the price and then convert their debt to equity to cover their short
positions at the lower price. To the extent that the rule facilitates better oversight and prosecution of this

338 See I. Goldstein and A. Guembel, Manipulation and the Allocational Role of Prices, 75 (1) THE REV. OF
ECON. STUDIES 133-164 (2008).
339 See, e.g., Stephen J. Brown, Bruce D. Grundy, Craig M. Lewis and Patrick Verwijmeren, Convertibles and
Hedge Funds as Distributors of Equity Exposure, 25 (10) REV. FIN. STUD 3077-3112 (Oct. 2012).
151
sort of fraud, it may facilitate capital formation by lowering the risk that convertible debt holders would
engage in this sort of fraud.
Proposed Rule 13f-2 may also affect capital formation through investor confidence. Some
Commenters have suggested that short selling, and in particular a lack of short selling disclosure leads
some investors to have less confidence in financial markets,340 although the results may be mixed. The
Commission believes that improving short selling transparency would strengthen investor confidence
which could help make investors more willing to invest, resulting in the promotion of capital
formation.341
F. Reasonable Alternatives
1. Alternative Approaches
i. Releasing Aggregated CAT Data
As an alternative to collecting, aggregating, and publishing Proposed Form SHO, the
Commission could amend the CAT NMS Plan to collect additional information so that the Commission or
the Plan Processor could aggregate and publish CAT Data.342 Specifically, the Commission could retain
proposed Rule 205 and the amendment to the CAT NMS plan requiring the reporting of bona fide market
making and buy to cover information to CAT and then use CAT data to have either the Commission or
the Plan Processor provide short selling information to the public. This alternative would effectively
eliminate the thresholds for reporting. This alternative could not be implemented until the CAIS system in
CAT is fully operational. Currently it would be extremely difficult to map Firm Designated IDs “FDIDs”
– which are currently broker-dealer specific – to individual Managers on a large scale. However this
functionality is anticipated once the CAIS system is fully operational.
CAT data currently contains a short sale mark and also provides the identities of the individuals
transacting. Consequently the Commission or the Plan Processor could aggregate information on the
 340 See NASDAQ, OTC Markets, and CFA Institute letters (in response to FINRA’s short selling proposal)
available at https://www.finra.org/rules-guidance/notices/21-19#comments.
341 See Exchange Act Release No. 61595 (Feb. 26, 2010), 75 FR 11232, at 297 (Mar. 10, 2010), available at
https://www.sec.gov/rules/final/2010/34-61595fr.pdf.

342 This alternative presumes that the Customer and Account Information System “CAIS” system in CAT is
operational, thus allowing the Commission to track trades of individual traders.
152
number of short sales that Managers engage in from CAT and disseminate aggregated information to the
public at monthly intervals – or more frequently. The Commission or Plan Processor could publish daily
statistics on the number of short sales engaged in by Managers each day in the prior month as reported in
CAT. Additionally, the reports could include information on options transactions that lead to short
positions, such as purchasing a put option, or writing a call option.343 Furthermore, a longer time series
(for example, a rolling year) to estimate a Manager’s position could be aggregated using CAT data. These
could be aggregated to create a market-wide short position estimate. However, this estimate would be
inaccurate because the alternative does not consider collecting in CAT information on changes in
positions that come from activity other than secondary market transactions, such as secondary offering
purchases, conversions, creations and redemptions, and option exercises and assignments. This
inaccuracy could also result in the market-wide short position estimate being less accurate than current
short interest data.344
The alternative would result in lower benefits than Proposed Rule 13f-2 and Proposed Form
SHO. For each trading day, the alternative would involve publishing the net change in short sale positions
engaged in by Managers.345 The data published under this alternative would have significant overlap with
the data that would be published under Proposed Rule 13f-2 and Proposed Form SHO. One difference
between this alternative and the current data proposed to be collected in Proposed Form SHO and
published by the Commission is that the data in this alternative could be more comprehensive in terms of
the breadth of Managers whose short selling information could be aggregated and published,346 because
the Commission could publish aggregated data on short selling transactions from all Managers instead of
just those that meet the threshold. However, the published data would be less accurate in terms of
estimating positions and changes in positions as they would not include certain activity, such as options
 343 In this alternative, however, CAT would not contain the information on option expirations or assignments.
344 FINRA’s process of gathering and validating short interest data takes approximately two weeks. See supra
note 221.
345 This contrasts with the Proposed Rule 13f-2 which requires reporting based on the settlement date which is
normally two business days after the transaction day.
346 This assumes the Managers that could be identified in CAT could include all those that would be
responsible for reporting under Proposed Rule 13f-2 and Proposed Form SHO.
153
assignments, that are not collected in CAT but that may affect a short position. In addition, the alternative
would not permit the publication of information on the percentage of positions that are fully or partially
hedged. As a result of these differences, this alternative would result in less clarity about bearish
sentiment among Managers. Thus, in terms of price efficiency, this approach would not have many of the
same benefits as Proposed Rule 13f-2 and Proposed Form SHO.
The alternative would also reduce the benefits of comparing the published data to short interest
because the alternative would focus on transaction dates rather than settlement dates and the alternative
would not be restricted to large positions. Short interest measures short positions as of two settlement
dates per month. A comparison of the data in the alternative to the short interest data would require either
publishing the position data as of the transaction dates that correspond to the short interest settlement
dates or users would have to use the activity data to offset the dates themselves. Further, the inclusion of
more than just Managers with large short positions means that the information conveyed by the
alternative relative to short interest would be less additive than under Proposed Rule 13f-2 and Proposed
Form SHO.
This alternative would also mitigate some of the concerns associated with Managers being
exposed to increased risk of short squeezes or other retaliation as discussed in Part VIII.D.1 and VIII.D.2.
This reduced risk would come because it would be more difficult to determine whether the short selling
activity reported was due to many Managers short selling small amounts, or just a few Managers short
selling large amounts. It would also be more difficult to identify individual short sellers based on the data.
A lower risk of retaliation or short squeezes may also mitigate some of the negative effects of the
proposal with regard to less overall short selling or fundamental research that are described in Part
VIII.D.2, depending on the delay in publication under the alternative.
Additionally, this approach would have lower compliance costs for Managers than the current
proposal, as it would not require Managers to file Proposed Form SHO. While it would result in the same
costs for Industry Member reporting as those associated with Proposed Rule 205 and the Proposal to
Amend CAT, it would increase costs associated with the Plan Processor improving processing power for
the aggregation of CAT data if such computations could not be performed with existing resources
154
(without reducing other functionality). Any costs incurred by the Plan Processor would be passed along to
Plan Participants and Industry Members.
As previously stated, the drawback to this alternative relative to the existing proposal is that it
would take some time before CAT data could be used to develop an estimate of the size of short positions.
Thus the data would not immediately provide the Commission or market participants with information
about the size of individual large short positions. Consequently, to the extent that knowing the total size
of short positions held by managers with large positions conveys fundamental information to the market,
then this fundamental information would not be immediately available if the Commission were to adopt a
version of this alternative. Additionally, the data provided by this alternative would lack transactions
outside of the purview of CAT that may affect short positions. Thus the data provided by this rule would
always be estimates of total short positions, which could be quite inaccurate for some Managers. Another
drawback to this alternative is that releasing CAT data to the public could increase security risks. CAT
contains highly sensitive information and creating a process that would release portions of the data, even
if aggregated, could present risks.
The Commission could also consider two variations of this alternative. The first, which can be
referred to as the minimalist approach, would not include Proposed Rule 205 and the Proposal to Amend
CAT and instead would provide Manager short selling statistics based on existing CAT data.347 The
advantage to this variation is that it would provide additional information about the short selling activity
and positions of Managers, compared to what is currently available, while requiring no additional
resources from Industry Members except, perhaps, those passed on from an increase in resources for the
Plan Processor to build out processing capacity - if the Plan Processor is chosen to aggregate reports and
if it currently lacks such capacity. An additional drawback to this variation relative to the alternative
above is that it would further limit the data that regulators have access to. Thus the benefits to having
bona fide market making and buy to cover information described throughout Part VIII.D would not occur.
Lastly, a larger expansion of CAT could achieve at least the same data value as in Proposed Rule
13f-2 and Proposed Form SHO. For example, CAT could expand to require the reporting of all the
 347 Once again, this variation and the following variation presume that the CAIS system is fully operational.
155
information currently proposed to be collected in Proposed Form SHO. Specifically, the Commission
could expand CAT to include data on account positions, including short selling positions as well as
hedging information associated with those positions. In addition, CAT could be expanded to capture
information on changes in those positions, options assignments, options exercises, secondary offering
purchases, conversions, and other position changes. Under this approach, regulators would have access to
the same data as if Managers filed Proposed Form SHO but for all short sellers, not only the subset of
Managers reporting on Proposed Form SHO. This approach would also result in additional information
available to regulators not collected in the Proposed Form SHO that could improve investor protections.
In addition, this alternative would reduce costs for Managers who are not Industry Members because they
would not be required to report new information. However, costs would increase for Industry Members
who would have to report a lot of new information on CAT report types that don’t exist today and for
Participants who would have to implement changes and work out technical specifications for new types of
CAT reports. Further, more Industry Members would report this information to CAT compared to
Managers require to report information on Proposed Form SHO. It would be a major undertaking for both
the Plan Processor as well as for industry participants to build out and adapt systems to collect, process,
and publish this information. This implementation would likely be very complex and take a significant
amount of time to compile. Overall, the cost of this alternative is likely to exceed the costs of Proposed
Rule 13f-2 and Proposed Form SHO.
Further, if the Commission were to expand CAT to collect additional information beyond what
would be captured by the Proposal to Amend CAT and Proposed Rule 205, such as position information,
then these additional expansions would incur significant direct costs.
ii. FINRA Reporting
As discussed in part VIII.C.4.i, FINRA already collects and, together with the listing exchanges,
disseminates aggregate short interest that it collects from member broker-dealers. Consequently, the
Commission could codify their existing process to ensure that in continues in perpetuity. This alternative
would have no additional costs to market participants, but would substitute a Commission mandate for the
publication of the short interest data.
156
Similarly, the Commission could require FINRA to publish a version of their short interest
information that specifically identifies the aggregate short interest of Managers – separate from other
short interest. To accomplish this, reporting broker-dealers would separately report in their reports to
FINRA the short positions that originate from Managers. FINRA would then compile both total short
interest, as they currently do, as well as a Manager specific short interest. Because broker-dealers already
have experience reporting short interest data to FINRA and would thus not need to build out new systems
to report the data, this alternative may be less expensive than the existing proposal as it would only
require a modification of an existing process. This alternative would not provide the Commission with the
positions of any identified Managers or any Manager-specific activity data, nor would it provide
information on which positions are fully or partially hedged, thus the benefits and risks associated with
these data articulated throughout Part VIII.D would decline.
The Commission also expects that data on Manager short interest in addition to total short interest
would likely not provide much incremental value over the existing short interest data due to the likely
significant overlap of the short positions of Managers and total short interest, and the absence of activity
information to better understand changes in short interest.
348 Thus, while the alternative that requires
FINRA to produce separate short interest data for Managers would reduce costs to market participants
relative to the existing proposal, it also may not provide the market or regulators a significant incremental
benefit relative to existing short selling data.
iii. Broker-Dealer Reporting to EDGAR on Behalf of Managers
The Commission could modify the existing proposal to allow broker-dealers to file Proposed
Form SHO reports with the Commission on behalf of Managers. This alternative may reduce costs as it
could concentrate reporting with broker-dealers that have significant experience collecting and providing
such information – increasing operational efficiency.
349 On the other hand, Managers may use multiple
prime brokers and thus the reporting prime broker may not have easy access to information about all such
 348 Analysis of Form SH data indicates that these data, which would be a subset of the data collected in this
alternative, amounted to a high percentage of short interest.
349 See MFA Letter, supra note 306 (p. 3 for 10a-3T).
157
Manager’s positions and activity in a security. Consequently, the prime broker would either need to report
based on its limited information, which may lead to less complete data, or to gather additional information
from the Manager about potential activity associated with another prime broker.
350 Reporting only
information known by one prime broker could also result in less information if a Manager that otherwise
would have exceeded the threshold for reporting does not exceed the threshold at one or more prime
brokers. Requiring additional data collection may increase complexity and costs as Managers and brokerdealers would need to develop systems by which a Manager provides information about their activity with
other prime brokers to their reporting broker. Or, the Commission could allow broker-dealers to report on
behalf of Managers only if the broker-dealer could report full information. Thus Managers using multiple
prime brokers would have the option of providing comprehensive information to their reporting prime
broker, or they could report Proposed Form SHO data themselves.
iv. Harmonization with European Disclosure Requirements
The Commission could also explicitly craft Proposed Rule 13f-2 and Proposed Form SHO to be
consistent with European disclosure requirements. In 2012, the European Parliament and the Council of
the European Union adopted regulations on short selling (the “SSR”) that standardized the reporting
threshold for all EU member states.351 Under the SSR, the trading entity reports to the regulator when
their net short position reaches the initial threshold of 0.2% of the share capital of the company, and in
0.1% up and down increments thereafter.352 The threshold for reporting to the regulator recently was
lowered to 0.1%.353 Net short positions are computed taking into account relevant derivative positions
 350 The latter could result in the additional complication of double reporting or prime brokers having to
coordinate on who reports a position. Likely, the least costly solution could involve Managers being responsible for
informing their prime brokers of their threshold status.
351 See European Parliament and the Council of the European Union, Regulation No. 236/2012 (Mar. 24,
2012), available at https://eur-lex.europa.eu/LexUriServ/LexUriServ.do?uri=OJ:L:2012:086:0001:0024:en:PDF
(The SSR was adopted by the European Parliament and the Council of the European Union on March 14, 2012 and
became effective on November 1, 2012.).
352 Id. (at Article 5(2)).
353 The threshold was temporarily lowered in March 2020 in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. In October
2021, the change became permanent. See European Union, Commission Delegated Regulation No. 236/2012,
Register of Commission Documents, available at https://ec.europa.eu/transparency/documentsregister/detail?ref=C(2021)6815&lang=en&utm_source=Cleverreach&utm_medium=email&utm_campaign=Updat
e%20Shareholder%20Activism&utm_content=Mailing_13052681.
158
such as options. If the net short position reaches 0.5% of the share capital of the company, then the
reported short position is made public with the identity of the short seller revealed. New filings are
required to be made whenever the short position increases or decreases by 0.1% of the share capital of the
firm. In the EU, trading entities must submit their data to the regulator by 3:30 pm on the following
trading day.354 Trading entities accomplish public disclosure via a central website operated or supervised
by the relevant competent authority.355
Consequently, the Commission could structure the rule to require Manager short selling reports
that are consistent with the European regulations in terms of the thresholds for reporting, the computation
of the threshold, the items reported, when short sale information is made public, and when new reports
have been issued. The advantage to this alternative would be that managers who engage in short selling in
both the United States and in Europe would face similar regulations in both places – which may decrease
the cost of compliance with both regulations.356
The EU structure whereby individual short sellers’ names are made public may raise the risk that
investors may gather less fundamental information relative to the existing proposal as the risk of
retaliation towards short individual sellers may increase, as well as the ability for market participants to
engage in copy-cat strategies that decrease the profitability of gathering information.357
The EU data is more timely than what is considered in this proposal as the forms are posted
publicly immediately after receipt by the regulator, potentially facilitating greater price discovery but at
the cost of lowering the value of gathering information. Further, the EU guidelines do not provide activity
data. Thus, market participants could not learn from an analysis of how short selling positions change
over time. For instance, firm managers could only see the size of net short positions and thus may be

354 Id. (at Article 9(2)).
355 Id. (at Article 9(4)).
356 Due to uncertainties regarding the EU short selling data regarding the identities of short sellers and the
ability to map those IDs to US Managers, the Commission cannot identify the number of US Managers that
currently comply with EU regulations.
357 For analyses of how the SSR lead to increased copycat trading, lower price efficiency, and increased
volatility, see Stephan Jank, Christoph Roling, and Esad Smajlbegovic, Flying Under the Radar: The Effects of
Short-Sale Disclosure Rules on Investor Behavior and Stock Prices, 139 (1) J. OF FIN. ECON. 209-233 (2021);
Charles M. Jones, Adam V. Reed, and William Waller, Revealing Shorts an Examination of Large Short Position
Disclosures, 29 (12) THE REV. OF FIN. STUDIES 3278-3320 (2016).
159
hindered in their ability to learn from when short sellers built their positions and whether the building of a
short position was in response to a specific manager action or firm announcement.
2. Data modifications
i. Release Proposed Form SHO Data in Alternative Formats
The Commission could release the information included in Proposed Form SHO in a different
manner. This alternative could take one of several forms. For example, the Commission could release
each Proposed Form SHO report to the public exactly as it is filed, identifying the Managers. The
Commission could also release the Forms as filed, but with the identities of the filers stripped. The
Commission could also release the aggregated data as in the current proposal but it could publish the data
in different ways in the aggregated Proposed Form SHO report, such as, for example, publish the number
of entities underlying the aggregated data, publish aggregations of the various categories of changes in
short positions, or publish increases in short positions separate from decreases.
In the first alternative, the Commission could release Proposed Form SHO as filed, allowing all
market participants to know the identities of short sellers – similar to the EU regulation discussed above.
This would increase the information that market participants have to evaluate sentiment in the market. For
example, if a short seller is viewed as sophisticated and informed, then releasing identifying information
would likely spur copy-cat trading strategies. This outcome has been documented with respect to the EU
regulation and suggests that revealing the identities of the short sellers may diminish the value of
becoming informed.358 In addition, all the detailed information on daily short activities across the various
activity categories could reveal trading strategies, particularly if the Manager is identified. This
information would also allow market participants to better manage risk by allowing them to manage their
exposure to Managers with large short positions. Additionally, releasing the names of large short sellers
would further increase the likelihood that the short seller would be the victim of a short squeezes or other
retaliatory actions as described in Part VIII.D.1.
Similarly, the Commission could publicly release individual Proposed Form SHO filings with
identification information stripped from the released data. This alternative would allow market
 358 See supra Part VIII.F.1.iv (discussion in section).
160
participants a clearer view into the activities of large short sellers, potentially improving their ability to
learn from the actions of large short sellers relative to the current proposal. For instance, the data would
allow market participants to know whether short sentiment was broadly held – as would be indicated by
many filings – or concentrated – as would be indicated by few filings. This information could potentially
improve the market assessment of bearish sentiment relative to Proposed Rule 13f-2, improving price
efficiency.
However, the indirect costs of this alternative would be greater than for Proposed Rule 13f-2 and
Proposed Form SHO. Releasing all the information from Proposed Form SHO could reveal trading
strategies that would be costly even if the identities of the short sellers remained anonymous. For
example, releasing this information may increase the risk of copycat trading which eats into the profits of
acquiring information. It may also provide information about how vulnerable short sellers may be to a
short squeeze as it could give a signal about whether a short seller has a large and potentially vulnerable
short position thus increasing this risk to short sellers. In this case, the negative effects of the rule on the
value of collecting information and of short selling in general would be greater than the current proposal,
leading to less price efficiency and potentially more volatility. Additionally, even though the data could
be released anonymously, it is not clear that in all cases the identities of the individual short sellers would
remain anonymous.359 If market participants were able to back out the identities of individual short
sellers, then the risk of retaliation or short squeezes would increase relative to Proposed Rule 13f-2 and
Proposed Form SHO.
Alternatively, the Commission could release the data as specified in the current proposal but also
include the number of entities whose Proposed Form SHO reports were collected. This information would
provide the market with additional detail about whether short sentiment was broadly held by multiple
managers, or narrowly held by just one or a few. This information could be useful as market participants

359 Issuers have been known to hire private investigators to try and uncover the identities of short sellers when
they learn that their stock is being targeted by short sellers See supra note 258. Additionally, researchers have used
algorithms to unmask the identities of individuals from masked data released to the public by the SEC. See Huaizhi
Chen, Lauren Cohen, Umit Gurun, Dong Lou, and Christopher Malloy, IQ from IP: Simplifying Search in Portfolio
Choice, 138 (1)J. OF FIN. ECON. 118-137 (2020). While the Commission could design this alternative to avoid the
specific vulnerabilities exploited by Chen et al. (2020) it is possible that motivated researchers and market
participants could find some other unforeseen way to link the public data to individual short sellers.
161
assess bearish sentiment in the market and adjust their actions accordingly. Adding this information may
also increase the risk of short squeezes or other retaliatory actions in the case where there were very few
reporters of Proposed Form SHO. In the Form SH data collected under Temporary Rule 10a-3T, 32% of
stocks had only one Manager reporting a position per month.360 Such a situation could signal to market
participants that one, or a few, short sellers have large short positions that could potentially be vulnerable
to a squeeze.
The Commission could collect Proposed Form SHO data as proposed but in the data made public,
the Commission could aggregate at the issuer level as opposed to the security level. Aggregating at the
issuer level would allow users of the data a simpler view into overall short selling for the whole firm.
However, computing this aggregation introduces complexity, as different share issues sometimes have
different prices or voting rights, thus it may not make economic sense to aggregate all short selling data
across all share classes for the same issuer. This effect would decrease the information content of the data
with respect to bearish sentiment, which decreases what market participants could learn from the data, but
also would make it more difficult for market participants to copycat short selling strategies.
As another alternative, the Commission could release statistics on the Proposed Form SHO filings
aggregated across Managers but not netted across the various activity categories. This would allow
market participants to not only see the extent of the position changes of large short sellers but also how
they achieve their position changes, including whether they create or cover positions in the equities
market or by options exercises, for example. The Commission believes that such information could risk
revealing trading strategies, even if aggregated across Managers, particular if Managers have correlated
strategies. As a result, this would be more costly to Managers than Proposed Rule 13f-2 and would
dissuade fundamental research more. On the other hand, while such information is of more regulatory
value, by publicly releasing more detailed activity data, some market participants may benefit from
learning the various ways that short sellers change their positions.
Similarly, the Commission could collect Proposed Form SHO data as proposed but publicly
release the daily aggregate increases in short positions separately from the daily aggregate decreases in
 360 See supra note 80 (for more information on methodologies and caveats for using Form SH data).
162
short positions as opposed to daily net changes to short positions as currently proposed. This approach
would provide the public more detailed information and understanding on what drives changes to short
positions. However, separating daily aggregate increase from decreases in short positions could increase
the risk of revealing trading strategies, which could disincentivize short selling and harm market quality.
ii. Collect Data on Derivatives Positions
Investors can use derivatives to take an economically short position in a security. For example, an
investor with a bearish view of a stock can purchase a put option in that stock. Consequently, for a more
complete view of the total economic short position that a Manager has taken, the Commission could
require Managers who report Proposed Form SHO to also disclose their derivatives positions on
underlying equity securities in derivatives such as options and total-return swaps as an alternative to the
existing proposal which does not directly collect information on derivatives.
Requiring this data would provide a more complete view of the economic short position that a
Manager engaging in a large short sale has taken. Consequently, the information would aid market
participants in gauging bearish sentiment in a security relative to Proposed Rule 13f-2 and Proposed Form
SHO. This information may also help the Commission to better evaluate potentially risky short positions
and respond more quickly in the case of a market event. The Commission could also better reconstruct
market events, such as the recent meme stock events in January 2021, with options positions data.
Requiring options data to be reported on Proposed Form SHO would increase the compliance
costs to Managers of reporting on Proposed Form SHO. While Managers generally track their options
exposure carefully, it is frequently different trading desks that execute options trades and equity
transactions. Thus, it is possible that Managers use separate systems to track their options and equity
positions. For these Managers, collecting options and equity transactions to report the data required for
Proposed Form SHO would require building a process to pull data from two separate systems - increasing
the cost of complying with the rule.
Requiring derivative position information may also be duplicative of other derivatives reporting
requirements. For instance, recently proposed Rule 10B-1 requires individuals, or groups of individuals,
163
who own security-based swaps that exceed a certain threshold to report certain information to the SEC,
which information would be made publicly available.361
iii. Report Net Short Positions Instead of the Gross Position with Hedging
Information
The Commission could require managers reporting Proposed Form SHO data to report net short
positions instead of gross short positions. Net short positions would take into account any hedging the
Manager engages in. For instance, a Manager that has a large long position in options that is largely
hedged using short sales in equities is not taking an economically significant short position in the security.
Fully hedged short positions are less likely to be manipulative in nature, or to pose systemic risk.
Consequently, the Commission could limit reporting to only Managers whose economic short positions
surpass the thresholds. Doing so would limit the amount of data collected by the Commission and would
thus reduce the cost of the alternative relative to Proposed Rule 13f-2 but also reduce somewhat the value
of the data in terms of using it to reconstruct market events. For instance, during the recent meme stock
phenomenon, for certain stocks it became difficult to hedge options transactions using the underlying
security due to the significant price changes in the spot market. Consequently, positions that may have
previously appeared to have been hedged, and thus low risk, may no longer be as hedged as previously
supposed, and in this case, large short positions that were initially hedged may become systemically
important as the hedge breaks down due to unforeseen extreme market events. In this case, it would be
useful for the Commission to have information on large hedged short positions largely to aid in
reconstruction of market events. This alternative would limit what the public and the Commission could
learn from large hedged positions relative to the Proposed Rule 13f-2 and Proposed Form SHO. For
instance, the alternative would preclude a comparison of total short interest with reported large hedged
short positions, which may provide additional information to the market about the activities of large,
though perhaps non-information based, traders.
 361 See Exchange Act Release No. 93784 (Dec. 15, 2021), available at
https://www.sec.gov/rules/proposed/2021/34-93784.pdf.
164
Additionally, the Commission could require Managers to report the delta value of their hedged
positions rather than providing an indicator for whether a position is fully or partially hedged.362 This
alternative could have some of the same advantages as the other alternatives in this section. If the
Commission published this information aggregated across Managers, then market participants would have
a clearer view into economic – i.e. unhedged – short positions than is provided by the Proposed Rule 13f2 and Proposed Form SHO. The cost of this alternative is an increased reporting burden for Managers as
they would be required to compute for the report delta value of their hedge. However, knowing
information about the delta of short seller’s hedge can provide information about how vulnerable a short
seller, or short sellers, may be to a short squeeze. If this information was not made public by the
Commission, however, it would allow the Commission an improved view into individual short sellers
with potentially risky short positions without raising those concerns.
3.Threshold Modifications
As an alternative to Threshold A’s two-pronged threshold, the Commission could require
reporting Proposed Form SHO at either higher or lower thresholds – or no threshold. When soliciting
comments for Temporary Rule 10a3-T, commenters suggested thresholds ranging from 1% to 5%.363
When selecting thresholds, the fundamental economic tradeoff is the value of the data versus the cost of
collecting the data.
Alternative thresholds that are lower than Threshold A or Threshold B specified in Proposed Rule
13f-2 or an alternative that would not contain a threshold would produce more data as more entities would
be required to report. In the Form SH data collected under Temporary Rule 10a-3T, the threshold of $10
million or 2.5% would collect 89% of the dollar value of the short positions required to be reported.
364
Therefore, the increase in coverage from a lower threshold would be low relative to the coverage in the
proposed Threshold A. Notwithstanding the low potential for an increase in coverage, the Commission
 362 Delta is a ratio that measures the change in the value of short position when the value of the long position
changes. For example, a delta of one means that a $1 increase in value of the short position results in a $1 decline in
value of the long position.
363 See supra note 79 (for links to specific comment letters).
364 See supra Table I. See also supra note 81.
165
recognizes that this increased coverage could increase benefits. For example, this additional data from the
alternative would enhance the benefits to the Proposed Form SHO data articulated above relative to
Proposed Rule 13f-2 and Proposed Form SHO. Specifically, it would provide market participants with a
clearer view of Manager bearish sentiment than the current proposal provides for as more managers
would be required to report the data, making the data more comprehensive. A lower threshold would also
allow the Commission to more easily reconstruct significant market events where short selling is involved
and enhance Commission oversight of short selling – again because the data would be more
comprehensive.
A lower or no threshold would increase the cost of reporting Proposed Form SHO data in terms
of direct costs associated with Managers compiling and submitting the required data thorough EDGAR
and in the indirect costs associated with revealing short sellers’ information. In the Form SH data
collected under temporary Rule 10a-3T, the number of reporting Managers for the de minimis threshold of
0.25% of shares outstanding or $10 million was 442, compared to 346 for the $10 million or 2.5%
threshold in Threshold A of the proposed rule.365 Additionally, Managers would likely be required to file
reports for more securities, which would also increase compliance costs. Indirect costs include increased
risk of copycat short selling strategies, which lead to herding and increased volatility, and short sellers
engaging in strategic behavior to short sell just underneath Threshold A, which leads to lower price
efficiency.366 In some cases a lower threshold would decrease the indirect costs associated with the
proposed rule because it would be harder to identify individual short positions from aggregate reporting if
there are many entities reporting, thus lowering the chances that a given security would only have one
Manager reporting a short position.
367 This effect may not be universally true, however. In particular, at
thresholds just lower than proposed Threshold A, the number of securities where only one entity reported
Form SH increases.
368 This result implies that there are a number of securities for which only one short

365 Id.
366 See supra notes 271 and 353 (for research documenting this behavior in Europe).
367 See supra notes 257 and 278 (with accompanying text for more information on risks of identifying
individual short sellers).
368 According to Form SH data, 32% of securities would have only one Manager reporting at or above the
currently proposed threshold of $10 Million and 2.5%. If the percent threshold was reduced to 1% along with the
166
seller held a significant short position at a level lower than the current cutoff. In these cases, lowering the
threshold may increase the risk of identifying individual short sellers.
Conversely, raising the proposed Threshold A lowers many of the costs associated with providing
Proposed Form SHO data as fewer entities would be required to report. It also limits somewhat the value
of the data – again as the reported data would reflect a smaller portion of overall short positions. For
example, in the Form SH data, a threshold of 5% or $25 million suggested in comment letters reduce the
coverage to 71% of dollar value of short positions compared to 89% in the proposed rule.369 Higher
thresholds may also come with increased risk of identification and retaliation towards short sellers
because at some point the likelihood that more than one investor holds a very large short position
diminishes. For example, according to analysis for Form SH data 41% of reported securities would reflect
one Manager with a short position at a threshold of $25 million and 5% compared to 24% of reported
securities for the proposed Threshold A.
370
For securities subject to Threshold B, the economic impact of either raising or lowering the dollar
threshold would be similar. Raising the threshold would lower compliance costs, but also lower the
quality of the data while lowering the threshold would do the opposite. For example, if the Commission
raised Threshold B from $500,000 to $10 million, then under the assumption of one manager short selling
each Threshold B security, the total number of short positions captured for Threshold B securities would
decrease from 23.72% to 8.76%.371 Similarly, under the same assumptions, lowering the threshold to
$50,000 would increase the number of short positions captured to 48.08%.
As another alternative to the proposed Threshold A, the Commission could establish a threshold
based on one of the thresholds in Proposed Rule 13f-2 – short position as a percent of shares outstanding
or the dollar value of the short position. The advantage of this alternative is that it may reduce compliance
costs by simplifying reporting requirements. Additionally it would lower overall compliance costs due to

$10 million threshold the number of securities with only one Manager reporting would increase to 35%. See also
supra note 81.
369 See SIFMA letter (discussing Temporary Rule 10a3-T). See also supra Table I. See also supra note 81.
370 See note 80 (for more information on methodologies and caveats for using Form SH data).
371 See supra Table II (analysis within table).
167
fewer entities being required to report as entities that may meet one threshold may not meet another and
thus may not be required to report. An alternative including only the 2.5% threshold would have a bigger
impact than an alternative including only the $10 million threshold. Commission analysis based on Form
SH data suggests that 342 Managers would meet the $10 million threshold and 160 Managers would meet
the 2.5% threshold, compared to 346 in Proposed Rule 13f-2.
The alternative of requiring a threshold based only on short positions as a percent of shares
outstanding would largely eliminate reporting in larger securities. Short sellers will hit the 2.5% threshold
in stocks with market capitalization below $400 million before they hit the $10 million dollar threshold.
For stocks with market capitalization above $400 million, short sellers will hit a $10 million dollar
threshold before hitting the 2.5% threshold. Consequently, if the Commission required reporting based
only on the percent of shares outstanding, then there would be fewer reports of Proposed Form SHO for
stocks with larger market capitalizations. Less visibility into the actions of short sellers in larger market
capitalization stocks would provide less information about bearish sentiment in the economy, generally
because larger market capitalization stocks tend to be more well-established and harder to manipulate.372
Conversely, if the Commission required reporting based only on the dollar threshold, then there would be
fewer reports among stocks with lower market capitalizations. Smaller market capitalization stocks tend
to be easier to manipulate and less stable. Thus, less visibility into the actions of short sellers among
smaller market capitalization stocks may mitigate somewhat the benefits of reduced manipulative
behavior among these stocks articulated in Part VIII.D.1.
As another alternative, the Commission could structure the Reporting Thresholds to include the
nominal economic value of short derivative positions. Specifically, reporting on Proposed Form SHO
would be required if a Manager’s total short position in the stock and in derivatives such as options and
security-based swaps exceeded the relevant Reporting Thresholds. This alternative would decrease the
likelihood that Managers seek to avoid the Reporting Thresholds by transacting in derivatives and thus,
 372 See, e.g., Carole Comerton-Forde, Tālis J. Putniņš, Stock Price Manipulation: Prevalence and
Determinants, 18 (1) REV. OF FIN. January 2014, Pages 23–66, available at https://doi.org/10.1093/rof/rfs040 (for
evidence on small and less liquid stocks higher exposure to manipulative behavior by investors).
168
may increase the benefits of the data from Proposed Form SHO.373 Making it more difficult to circumvent
the reporting requirements using derivatives may also decrease strategic, and sub-optimal, trading around
the Reporting Thresholds which leads to lower price efficiency.374 However, increasing the amount of
information that is provided in Proposed Form SHO may increase copycat activity that leads to herding
and increased volatility. Conversely, increasing the reports may dilute the information and reduce the
amount of herding. This alternative could also result in some situations in which Managers would have a
reporting obligation despite having large long positions in the equity over the entire month, which would
increase costs for the Managers and would provide less relevant information. Additionally, including
derivatives in the Reporting Threshold computations would increase the complexity of the rule and the
cost of implementing the rule. For instance, Managers may need to pull information from multiple
systems to determine the total value of their short position for reporting. Pulling information from
multiple systems can be costly.375 Additionally, while valuing short positions in most equities is fairly
straight forward, this is not true for derivatives. There are often multiple methodologies used by different
market participants to value derivative contracts such as options. Thus, an alternative including a
threshold for a Managers short exposure in derivatives would be significantly more complicated than
Proposed Rule 13f-2 and Proposed Form SHO.
An alternative could also involve requiring the thresholds to be based on activity and not just
positions. This alternative would increase the amount of information available to the Commission
regarding the activities of entities engaging in a high volume of short selling. This alternative may
provide additional insight into Managers that sell short but do not hold short positions. Specifically,
entities with high volumes of short selling are likely to be market makers who use short selling to
 373 See supra Part VIII.D.8.
374 See supra Part VIII.D.1 (for further discussion on strategic trading around the threshold and how the rule is
designed to reduce it).
375 Industry practices may change with regard to security-based swaps in the case of the adoption of proposed
Rule 10B-1, which would require persons with large positions in security-based swaps to track all related securities.
See Exchange Act Release No. 93784 at 23 (stating that “proposed Rule 10B-1 would require public reporting of,
among other things: (1) certain large positions in security-based swaps; (2) positions in any security or loan
underlying the security-based swap position; and (3) positions in any other instrument relating to the underlying
security or loan or group or index of securities or loans”) available at https://www.sec.gov/rules/proposed/2021/34-
93784.pdf.
169
maintain two sided quotes in the absence of inventory and other high frequency traders. These entities
trade in large volumes, but tend to end trading sessions fairly flat on inventory in larger stocks.
Consequently, requiring reporting based on activity may not significantly improve the market’s ability to
assess of bearish sentiment. However, one area where reporting based on activity may be beneficial
would be in identifying short selling attacks that are relatively short lived. For example, an investor with a
convertible bond may seek to distort the stock price right around the exercise date of their bond as such
contracts stipulate that the holder of the convertible bond receives more shares if the stock price is lower.
In this case, an attempted manipulator may seek to aggressively short sell right around a convertible bond
exercise date. Activity that may be concentrated enough in time to not trigger a Reporting Threshold
based on average position over the prior month as is currently stipulated in the proposal. While this
activity information may be helpful in flagging unusual short selling activity as the Commission could
conceivably build reports based on existing CAT data that would be more effective at detecting such
behavior and Proposed Rule 13f-2 would identify these activities if the market participant exceeds the
Reporting Thresholds.
The Commission could measure the thresholds as of the last settlement day of the month rather
than on any day of the month, as in the $10 million prong, or as the average position over the month, as in
the 2.5% prong for Threshold A and the $500,000 threshold in Threshold B. This alternative would have
the advantage of simplifying compliance with Proposed Rule 13f-2 and Proposed Form SHO and thus
may reduce compliance costs. In the Form SH data, end of month thresholds reduced the number of
reporting Managers for the $10 million threshold from 342 to 247, and for the 2.5% threshold from 160 to
127.376 It would also line the Reporting Thresholds up with the positions reported in Proposed Form SHO
whereas a Manager’s reported information on Proposed Form SHO under Proposed Rule 13f-2 could be
below the Reporting Thresholds.
377 This alternative may also invite more strategic trading around the end
of the month than the proposal, which is structured to prevent trading around the threshold. For instance,
Managers with short positions near the threshold may temporarily reduce their positions to below a
 376 See supra Table I.
377 For example, a Manager’s position could exceed the $10 million threshold on the 7th of the month but be
below $10 million and 2.5% on the last settlement day of the month.
170
Reporting Threshold on exactly the days that short positions are measured for compliance with the
threshold to avoid reporting. This inefficient trading may reduce price efficiency right around the
reporting days as trading to avoid holding a position that would trigger reporting is not trading based on
economic considerations but rather trading based on regulatory considerations and thus is inefficient and
may harm price efficiency on these days.
Instead of Threshold B, the Commission could require the two prong, $10 million maximum
position or 2.5% average position, reporting threshold for short positions in an equity security of a nonreporting company issuer that is required for equity securities of reporting company issuers. This
approach may be less complex as all short positions would be subject to the same reporting threshold.
Further, it would retain a threshold that relates to the size of the short position to the size of the issue to
ensure capturing positions that are relatively large whereas the proposed Threshold B imposes a flat
threshold that could result in some relatively large positions not being filed on Proposed Form SHO.
However, this alternative would increase the burden for Managers as information for nonreporting issuers can be hard to find, making threshold calculations difficult. In particular, information for
the number of shares outstanding can be difficult to obtain for non-reporting issuers and when it is
available it is often stale and inaccurate. This could lead to problems with the calculations for the 2.5%
threshold. Because the alterative would require knowing shares outstanding of such securities each day,
this alternative would effectively impose new recordkeeping costs on Managers as Managers would need
to track daily changes in shares outstanding in order to assess the 2.5% threshold. Further, there are
multiple sources from which Managers can obtain shares outstanding for securities in non-reporting
company issuers. At times these sources may report different numbers for total shares outstanding.
Consequently, Managers could also feel the need to track the sources used to identify shares outstanding
each day and would incur costs to determine which sources to trust for compliance.
Additionally, the Commission could enhance record keeping requirements associated with the
alternative where Threshold A applies to all securities to require Managers to record and report on Form
SHO the source of data used to calculate shares outstanding in relation to determining compliance with
Threshold A. This could improve the quality of the information reported in the Proposed Form SHO for
171
securities of issuers who do not report with the Commission, by improving the quality of the data that
Managers use when calculating their positions. It may also help mitigate concerns that Managers may try
to game different data sources to avoid complying with the regulation. For securities of reporting issuers,
accurate shares outstanding information is readily available, thus concerns about gaming data sources or
using low quality information is not as relevant. However enhanced record keeping requirements would
increase the costs to Managers. While the Commission believes that most Managers have ready access to
this information, requiring that Managers record and report the information would impose require
Managers to further build out systems, in conjunction with the systems already required to report Form
SHO, to also capture the source of information used.
4.Other Alternatives
a. Alternative Reporting Frequency or Additional Reporting Delay
As alternatives, the Commission could require reporting at different frequencies than the monthly
reporting proposed by the rule. Specifically, the Commission could require reporting at frequencies that
are shorter than a month. For example, the Commission could require reporting daily, weekly, bi-weekly,
or whenever there is a significant change in short position (as is currently the standard in the European
Union), but at least monthly. These alternatives could require reporting if the average short position
surpasses the threshold for the month prior to the reporting period or if average positions surpass the
threshold for the prior period (e.g. week, or two weeks). The fundamental tradeoff with such thresholds
compares the simplicity of the rule with the potential to game the threshold by strategic trading. Such
alternative frequencies face the fundamental tradeoff of increased cost and increased transparency of the
data. Put simply, increasing the reporting frequency increases the number of reports and thus increases the
cost associated with reporting by a similar factor. Increased reporting frequency could also result in
collecting more information than the current proposal. The difference between the information collected
in the current proposal and this alternative would mainly come from the frequency and timeliness of the
reports. The improved timeliness could increase the risk of copycat strategies, but also improve price
efficiency. An additional difference to the data may come from Managers who for a short time have short
positions that are subject to Threshold A and are above the 2.5% threshold but below the $10 million
172
threshold, but do not maintain an average short position over 2.5% over the month. These Managers may
be required to report with more frequent disclosures. 378
The Commission could also consider different reporting windows for Managers who meet the
threshold short positions to report Proposed Form SHO. The current proposal requires Managers to report
Proposed Form SHO within 14 calendar days of the end of each month. Shorter time horizons may
increase the cost of reporting as Managers would have less time to gather and submit the data on
Proposed Form SHO and may need to build costlier procedures to ensure compliance with the reporting
requirement.379 A mitigating factor is that most of this reporting is likely to be done electronically,
consequently it may not take the full 14 calendar days for Managers to gather and file the required data to
the Commission.
Additionally, the Commission could adopt different horizons for releasing the aggregated data
after the reporting deadline. The fundamental tradeoff in terms of the delay between reporting and when
the Commission releases the aggregated data is that a shorter delay increases the relevance of the data, in
terms of the bearish sentiment it contains which may improve managerial decision making, as well as
providing more timely information about bearish sentiment in the market. At the same time a shorter
delay increases the likelihood of copycat behavior which decreases the incentive that short sellers have to
gather information potentially leading to lower price efficiency and greater volatility. The converse is true
for longer delays. Additionally, a shorter delay provides less time for the Commission to aggregate the
data and run checks on the aggregated data to ensure the Commission’s aggregation is error-free, and also
provides less time for amendments to be filed, both of which could harm the quality of the data.
b. Requiring information from customers for Proposed Rule 205
To enhance the value of the buy to cover mark in CAT, the Commission could also modify
components of Regulation SHO whereby broker-dealers would be required to gather information from
customers regarding whether a purchase meets the definition of buy to cover. In Proposed Rule 205,
 378 Many Commenters on temporary Rule 10a-3T stated that weekly reporting was overly burdensome. See
supra note 306.
379 See Seward & Kissel LLP letter (discussing Temporary Rule 10a3-T) at 5, available at
https://www.sec.gov/comments/s7-31-08/s73108-43.pdf.
173
broker-dealers would be required to mark transactions a buy to cover based only on information to which
they currently have access and they would not be required to net such activity across the same customer’s
accounts at that broker-dealer. This may miss some buy to cover trades that may occur if a Manager uses
a broker to execute short sales and a prime broker (or prime brokers) for other long positions. In this case,
the broker-dealer managing the purchase of shares would not know that the buy is actually a buy to cover
and would thus not mark the trade as such. The current proposal may also miss some transactions that
may occur if a Manager uses multiple accounts at the same broker-dealer to trade.
To close this gap in buy to cover data, the Commission could require broker-dealers to collect
information from customers concerning whether a given buy trade is a buy to cover trade, when
considering positions held at other broker-dealers. This alternative would increase the accuracy of the buy
to cover information collected via Proposed Rule 205, which would enhance the benefits discussed in Part
VIII.D. However, this alternative would impose significant costs on broker-dealers that do not already
collect such information relative to the current proposal as it would require broker-dealers to alter their
systems to collect this additional information from customers. It would also impose costs on customers
who would likewise need to alter their own systems and to report such information to their broker-dealer.
The number of customers incurring those costs would be limited to the number of customers employing
multiple broker-dealers to execute trades and maintain positions. For customers with only one brokerdealer, this alternative would not impose any additional costs as in this case their only broker-dealer
would have a comprehensive view of the customer’s positions from which to determine whether a trade
was buy to cover or not.
The Commission could also require broker-dealers to aggregate trades across all accounts by the
same purchaser at the same broker-dealer when determining buy to cover status of an order under
Proposed Rule 205. This alternative would include short positions held in any account other than the
purchasing account, as well as offsetting long positions held by the purchaser in the purchasing account or
any other account for purposes of the broker-dealer’s “buy to cover” order marking determination. This
alternative could create more comprehensive buy to cover marks in CAT but would also come with
additional compliance costs for broker-dealers as they would need to build out systems to track the net
174
positions of customers across all accounts in real time to determine whether a given order qualified as a
buy to cover transaction.
c. Report Proposed Form SHO in Inline XBRL
The proposal would require Proposed Form SHO to be filed in Proposed Form SHO-specific
XML, a structured, machine-readable data language. As an alternative, the Commission might require
Proposed Form SHO to be filed in Inline eXtensible Business Reporting Language (“Inline XBRL”), a
separate data language that is designed for business reporting information and is both machine-readable
and human-readable. Compared to the proposal, the Inline XBRL alternative for Proposed Form SHO
would provide more sophisticated validation, presentation, and reference features for filers and data users.
However, given the fixed and constrained nature of the disclosures to be reported on Proposed Form SHO
(e.g., the information would be as of a single reporting date rather than multiple reporting dates, and
Managers would not be able to customize the content or presentation of their reported data), the benefits
of these additional features would be muted. Compared to the proposal, this alternative would impose
greater initial implementation costs (e.g., licensing Inline XBRL filing preparation software) upon
reporting persons that have no prior experience structuring data in Inline XBRL.380 By contrast, because
many Managers that would be Proposed Form SHO filers would likely have experience structuring filings
in a similar EDGAR Form-specific XML data language, such as in the context of submitting Form 13F,
the Proposed Form SHO-specific XML requirement would likely impose lower implementation
compliance costs on Proposed Form SHO filers than an Inline XBRL requirement would impose.
G. Request for Comments
The Commission requests comment on all aspects of this Economic Analysis, including whether
the analysis has: (1) identified all benefits and costs, including all effects on efficiency, competition, and
capital formation; (2) given due consideration to each benefit and cost, including each effect on
efficiency, competition, and capital formation; and (3) identified and considered reasonable alternatives to
 380 See Inline XBRL Filing of Tagged Data, Securities Act Release No. 10514 (June 28, 2018), 83 FR 40846 at
40862, available at https://www.sec.gov/rules/final/2018/33-10514.pdf (discussing costs associated with Inline
XBRL filing of operating company financial statements and investment company risk/return summaries, including
software licensing costs).
175
the proposed new rules and rule amendments. We request and encourage any interested person to submit
comments regarding the proposed rules, our analysis of the potential effects of the proposed rules and
proposed amendments, and other matters that may have an effect on the proposed rules. We request that
commenters identify sources of data and information as well as provide data and information to assist us
in analyzing the economic consequences of the proposed rules and proposed amendments. We also are
interested in comments on the qualitative benefits and costs we have identified and any benefits and costs
we may have overlooked. In addition to our general request for comments on the Economic Analysis
associated with the proposed rules and proposed amendments, we request specific comment on certain
aspect of the proposal:
• Q35: Short Selling Data. The Economic Analysis discusses several existing sources of
short selling data and the limitations of each.
o Are the Commission’s descriptions of existing short selling data accurate? Why
or why not? Please explain. Are there other relevant existing data sources that the
Commission should consider as a part of the baseline? If so, please describe
them.
o Are the Commission’s descriptions of the various limitations in existing short
selling data accurate? Please explain. Are there limitations that the Commission
has not discussed? If so, please describe these limitations.
• Q36: Additive Information in Proposed Rule 13f-2 and Proposed Form SHO, Proposed
Rule 205, and the Proposal to Amend CAT. These Proposed Rules would require the
reporting of short sale information to EDGAR or to CAT.
o Would Proposed Rule 13f-2 and Proposed Form SHO provide information to the
public that is additive to what the public can already access? Would these
proposals solve some or all of the data limitations discussed in the Economic
Analysis? Why or why not?
o Would Proposed Rule 205 and the Proposal to Amend CAT solve the data
limitations discussed in the Economic Analysis? Why or why not? Are there
176
significant limitations, beyond those discussed above, in the design of the data
for the public in Proposed Rule 13f-2 and Proposed Form SHO that limits the
utility of the data to the public?
o Are there significant limitations, beyond those discussed above, in the design of
the data available to regulators in Proposed Rule 13f-2 and Proposed Form SHO,
Proposed Rule 205, and the Proposal to Amend CAT?
• Q37: Market Oversight and Investor Protection. The Economic Analysis describes how
the information from the Proposed Rules could be used to, for example, strengthen
regulatory oversight of short selling and facilitate market reconstructions.
o Would the Proposed Rule 13f-2 and Proposed Form SHO help to strengthen
regulatory oversight and facilitate market reconstructions? Please explain. What
would the role of each of the components of Proposed Form SHO to these
regulatory activities? Are there any other regulatory activities facilitated by these
proposed rules? If so, please describe.
o Would Proposed Rule 205 and the Proposal to Amend CAT help to strengthen
regulatory oversight and facilitate market reconstructions? Please explain. Are
there any other regulatory activities facilitated by these proposed rules? If so,
please describe.
o Would the additional regulatory oversight of short selling from the Proposed
Rules help deter manipulative short selling behavior? Why or why not? What are
some other potential benefits to investors of the regulatory activities facilitated
by the Proposed Rules?
• Q38: Market Quality The Economic Analysis describes both potential improvements to
market quality and potential harms to market quality that could result from the published
data from Proposed Rule 13f-2 and Proposed Form SHO. In addition, the Economic
Analysis describes potential improvements to market quality that could result from
Proposed Rule 205 and Proposed Amendments to CAT.
177
o Overall, would the Proposed Rules, on net, improve or harm market quality?
Please explain. Please discuss the extent, if any, to which each proposed rule
contributes to the overall effect on market quality.
o Would the information published from Proposed Rule 13f-2 and Proposed Form
SHO be useful to market participants and provide information that is not already
reflected in prices? Please explain. For example, would the published data help
market participants better understand existing short interest information by lining
up the position information with a short interest settlement date, by identifying
the aggregate positions held by reporting Managers, by identifying the extent to
which reporting Manager positions are fully or partially hedged, or by revealing
the daily changes in reporting Manager short positions? Please explain. As a
result, would such information improve price efficiency and market liquidity?
Please explain.
o Would the regulatory activities facilitated by Proposed Rule 13f-2 and Proposed
Form SHO, Proposed Rule 205, and the Proposal to Amend CAT improve price
efficiency and market liquidity? Please explain.
o Would the compliance costs associated with Proposed Rule 13f-2 and Proposed
Form SHO lead to a reduction in shorting significant enough to negatively affect
price efficiency and/or market liquidity? Why or why not?
o Would the published data from Proposed Rule 13f-2 and Proposed Form SHO
result in short selling Managers being more vulnerable to fundamental
information leakage, the revelation of trading strategies, or short squeezes and
other forms of retaliation? Please explain. Would any of these effects be
significant enough to negatively affect price efficiency and/or market liquidity?
Why or why not? For example, would these effects significantly reduce the
incentive of Managers to engage in fundamental research? Please explain and
178
identify the particular part of elements of the published data that would result in
such effects.
o Would Managers seek to reduce their short positions to avoid exceeding a
Reporting Threshold or to report a lower short position than the Manager typical
holds? Please explain. What would be the effect of such behavior on price
efficiency and market liquidity? Please explain.
o To what degree does the structure of the data, such as the level of aggregation,
threshold structure and delayed publication help to mitigate any potential
negative effects of Proposed Rule 13f-2 and Proposed Form SHO? Please
explain.
o Despite these mitigating factors, could market participants identify the particular
Managers and their reported positions and activity? If so, what are the additional
risks and costs faced by such Managers? Please explain.
o Are option market makers likely to exceed the Reporting Thresholds? If so, what
would be the effect on price efficiency and market liquidity of such inclusion?
Please explain.
• Q39: XML Requirement
o Would requiring the proposed short sale disclosures to be filed on EDGAR in
Proposed Form SHO-specific XML increase the economic effects of the
disclosure requirement by making the reported data more useful to users? Why or
why not?
o How would the costs and benefits of an Inline XBRL requirement compare to the
Proposed Form SHO-specific XML requirement for the proposed short sale
disclosures?
o Would requiring short sale disclosures be filed in Proposed Form SHO-specific
XML facilitate more efficient review and analysis of the reported short sale
disclosures by the Commission? Why or why not?
179
o Would the costs of the XML requirement vary by the type of Manager likely to
file Proposed Form SHO? If so, please explain which Managers would incur
higher or lower costs.
• Q40: Compliance Costs
o Has the Commission appropriately evaluated the compliance costs associated
with the Proposed Rules? Please explain. What are the primary cost drivers of the
Proposed Rules?
o Would Proposed Rule 13f-2 and Proposed Form SHO have lower compliance
costs than former Rule 10a3-T? Please explain.
o Would the Proposed to Amend CAT to add information on buy to cover and bona
fide market making require an additional field or fields to CAT? If so, what
would the estimated cost be to add said fields?
o Would Proposed Rule 205 and Proposal to Amend CAT to include buy-to-cover
information be less costly than the “open/close” indicator that was not included
the CAT NMS Plan? Please explain.
o Would the Reporting Thresholds impose a significant burden on Managers who
do not meet the threshold but must track their positions to know if they at some
point exceed the threshold? Please Explain.
o Would the compliance costs associated with the Proposals vary by the various
type of Manager? Would the costs of the XML requirement vary by the type of
Manager likely to file Proposed Form SHO? If so, please explain which
Managers would incur higher or lower costs.
o Do Managers other than registered investment advisers and option market makers
hold large short positions such that they would exceed the Reporting Thresholds
in Proposed Rule 13f-2? If so, which types of Managers are likely to hold such
short positions? Would the effects of including such Managers in Proposed Rule
13f-2 be any different than those described herein? Please explain.
180
• Q41: Other Economic Effects
o Has the Commission appropriately evaluated the potential impact of the
Proposals on corporate managerial decision making? Why or why not?
o Would the Proposals result in less securities lending and potentially lower returns
for investors in mutual funds, pension plans, and other securities lenders?
o Please discuss whether and how the adoption of the Proposals would impact
securities lending market.
o Are there any economic effects not discussed in the Economic Analysis? If so,
please describe them.
• Q42: Potential Circumvention
o Has the Commission accurately characterized economic short disclosure in
equity versus in derivatives markets? Why or why not?
o Would market participants circumvent reporting requirements by trading
derivatives? Why or why not?
o How costly would it be to include reporting regarding securities other than
equities, such as options and security based swaps, in Proposed Form SHO?
o What additional benefit would there be to requiring reporting in Proposed Form
SHO of short positions arising from securities other than equities, such as options
and security based swaps, in Proposed Form SHO?
• Q43: Efficiency, Competition, and Capital Formation
o Has the Commission appropriately evaluated the potential impact of the
Proposals on efficiency, competition, and capital formation? Please explain.
o Would the Proposed Rules have any effect on efficiency other than the potential
effects on price efficiency?
o Would Proposed Rule 13f-2 and Proposed Form SHO alter the competitive
landscape in the market to attract investor flows by disadvantaging Managers
who sell short relative to Managers who do not sell short? Please explain.
181
o Would the overall effect on price efficiency of the Proposed Rules be significant
enough to affect capital formation? Please explain. Would additional information
on short selling help corporate managers make better investment decisions,
thereby improving capital formation? Please explain. Would the Proposed Rules
reduce capital formation by discouraging investment in convertible securities by
raising the cost to hedge? Please explain. Would the Proposed Rules promote
capital formation through enhanced investor confidence? Please explain.
• Q44: Alternatives, Generally
o Are the Commission’s descriptions and analyses of potential alternatives to the
Proposed Rules accurate? Why or why not? Are there any other alternatives? If
so, please describe the alternative(s) including how the benefits and costs of the
alternative(s) compare to the benefits and costs of the Proposed Rules.
• Q45: Alternative Approaches
o Has the Commission appropriately evaluated the alternative whereby short
selling information would be collected using CAT, including bona fide market
making and buy to cover information, then aggregated and published? Why or
why not? Would this alternative raise any security issues associated with CAT,
either in the collection of such new information or in the publication of
aggregated CAT data? Please explain.
o Has the Commission appropriately evaluated the alternative whereby the bimonthly short interest collected by FINRA would be codified, FINRA would be
required to publish a version of its short interest information that specifically
identifies the aggregate short interest of Managers, and/or non-FINRA Managers
would be required to report to FINRA? Why or why not?
o Has the Commission appropriately evaluated the alternative whereby brokerdealers would file Proposed Form SHO reports with the Commission on behalf of
Managers? Why or why not?
182
o Has the Commission appropriately evaluated the alternative whereby Proposed
Rule 13f-2 and Proposed Form SHO would be explicitly crafted to be consistent
with European disclosure requirements, including reporting thresholds? Why or
why not?
• Q46: Data Modification Alternatives
o Has the Commission appropriately evaluated the alternative whereby the
information included in Proposed Form SHO would be released in a different
manner, including releasing Proposed Form SHO reports exactly as they are
filed, identifying the Managers, releasing Proposed Form SHO as filed but
stripped of Manager identities, releasing the number of entities whose Proposed
Form SHO reports were filed, aggregating at the issuer level as opposed to the
security level, releasing aggregations of the various categories of changes in short
positions, and/or releasing the daily aggregate increases in short positions
separately from the daily aggregate decreases in short positions? Why or why
not?
o Has the Commission appropriately evaluated the alternative whereby Managers
who report Proposed Form SHO would also be required to disclose their
derivatives positions on underlying equity securities? Why or why not?
o Has the Commission appropriately evaluated the alternative whereby Managers
would report net short positions instead of gross short positions, taking into
account any hedging that the Manager engages in, and/or the delta value of their
hedged positions? Why or why not?
o Has the Commission appropriately evaluated the alternative whereby Managers
would report data sources on Proposed Form SHO? Why or why not?
• Q47: Threshold Modifications
o Has the Commission appropriately evaluated the alternative whereby the
Reporting Thresholds would be modified compared to Thresholds A and B in
183
Proposed Rule 13f-2, including a higher or lower or no threshold, a threshold
based on short position as a percent of shares outstanding or dollar value of the
short positions, including the nominal economic value of short derivative
positions, a threshold based on activity, and/or measuring the threshold as of the
last settlement day of the month? Why or why not?
o Would decreasing the threshold to include more Managers improve the quality of
the data provided? Would increasing or decreasing the threshold increase the risk
of copycat trading strategies? Would increasing or decreasing the threshold to
include more Managers’ positions in the aggregated reports reduce the risk of
identifying individual investment Managers? Please explain.
o Would including the nominal economic value of short derivative positions as a
consideration for the threshold increase, decrease or have no impact on the risk
copycat trading? Please explain. Including the nominal economic value of short
derivative positions as a consideration for the threshold may require some
Managers to report short positions that are part of hedges of large long positions.
Would this information be beneficial? Please explain.
o Has the Commission appropriately evaluated the alternative of including a
threshold based on short selling activity? If not, please describe the costs or
benefits of this alternative relative to the proposal. Would a short selling activity
threshold provide additional beneficial information? Please explain. Would a
short selling activity threshold be more burdensome on Managers? Please
explain. If the Commission were to adopt a threshold based on short selling
activity, what should the level of the threshold be?
o Has the Commission appropriately evaluated the alternative of calculating the
threshold based on positions on the last day of the month? If not, please describe
the costs or benefits of this alternative relative to the proposal. Would such a
threshold provide data that is as beneficial as the current proposal? Would
184
calculating the threshold based on the last day of month lead to Managers
strategically lowering their short positions to avoid reporting? Please explain.
o Has the Commission appropriately evaluated the alternative of using the two
prong threshold for short positions in an equity security of a non-reporting
company issuer? If not, please describe the cost or benefits of this alternative
relative to the proposal. Is reliable shares outstanding information available for
non-reporting issuers? Please explain.
• Q48: Other Alternatives
o Has the Commission appropriately evaluated the alternative whereby reporting
would be required at a different frequency, a different reporting window, and/or
releasing aggregated data at a different horizon than in Proposed Rule 13f-2?
Why or why not?
o Has the Commission appropriately evaluated the alternative whereby Regulation
SHO would be modified, including requiring broker-dealers to collect
information from customers concerning whether a given buy trade is a buy to
cover trade when considering positions held at other broker-dealers, and/or
requiring broker-dealers to aggregate all accounts at the same broker-dealer when
determining buy to cover status of an order? Why or why not?
o How costly it would be to have Mangers who use prime brokers inform their
introducing brokers when buying-to-cover?
o Has the Commission appropriately evaluated the alternative whereby Proposed
Form SHO information would be submitted in Inline XBRL? Why or why not?
IX. Regulatory Flexibility Act Certification
The Regulatory Flexibility Act (“RFA”)381 requires federal agencies, in promulgating rules, to
consider the impact of those rules on small businesses. Section 603(a) of the Administrative Procedure
Act, as amended by the RFA, generally requires the Commission to undertake a regulatory flexibility
 381 5 U.S.C. 601 et seq.
185
analysis of all proposed rules, or proposed rule amendments, to determine the impact of such rulemaking
on “small businesses” unless the Commission certifies that the rule, if adopted, would not have a
significant economic impact on a substantial number of “small entities.”
Certification for Proposed Rule 13f-2 and New Proposed Form SHO. Although Section 601(b) of
the RFA defines the term “small business,” the statute permits agencies to formulate their own
definitions. The explanation of the term “small entities” and the definition of the term “small business” in
Rule 0-10382 of the Exchange Act do not explicitly reference Managers. Rule 0-10 does provide,
however, that the Commission may “otherwise define” small entities for purposes of a particular
rulemaking proceeding. For purposes of Proposed Rule 13f-2 and related Proposed Form SHO, therefore,
the Commission has determined that the definition of the term “small business” found in Rule 0-7(a)383
under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940384 is more appropriate to the functions of institutional
managers such as the Managers with reporting obligations under Proposed Rule 13f-2. The Commission
believes that the proposed definition would help ensure that all persons or entities that might be Managers
subject to reporting requirements under Proposed Rule 13f-2 will be included within a category addressed
by the Rule 0-7(a) definition. Therefore, for purposes of this rulemaking and the RFA, a Manager is a
small entity if it: (i) has assets under management having a total value of less than $25 million; (ii) did not
have total assets of $5 million or more on the last day of its most recent fiscal year; and (iii) does not
control, is not controlled by, and is not under common control with another investment adviser that has
assets under management of $25 million or more, or any person (other than a natural person) that had
total assets of $5 million or more on the last day of its most recent fiscal year.385 The Commission
requests comments on the use of this definition from Rule 0-7(a) under the Investment Advisers Act of
1940.

382 17 CFR 240.0-10 (“Rule 0-10”).
383 17 CFR 275.0-7(a) (“Rule 0-7(a)”).
384 15 U.S.C. 80b-1 et seq.
385 Rule 0-7(a), supra note 384. See generally Reporting Threshold for Institutional Investment Managers,
Exchange Act Release No. 89290 (July 10, 2020), 85 FR 46016, 46031 n.90 (July 31, 2020) (stating that
“[r]ecognizing the growth in assets under management at investment advisers since Rule 0-7(a) was adopted, the
Commission plans to revisit the definition of a small entity in Rule 0-7(a).”).
186
Under Proposed Rule 13f-2, Managers are not required to report on Proposed Form SHO unless
they meet or exceed a specified Reporting Threshold. Managers with short interest positions in equity
securities of a reporting company issuer would be subject to a two-pronged short reporting threshold
structure - a short position in an equity security with a US dollar value of $10M or more, or a monthly
average short position as a percentage of shares outstanding of the equity security of at least 2.5%
(Threshold A). Managers with short interest positions in equity securities of a non-reporting company
issuer would be subject to a single-pronged short reporting threshold structure - a short position in an
equity security with a US dollar value of $500,000 or more at the close of regular trading hours on any
settlement date during the calendar month (Threshold B). While the parameters of the Reporting
Thresholds under Proposed Rule 13f-2 relate to the number and dollar value of shares of short positions,
rather than assets under management, the Commission nevertheless believes that application of the
Reporting Thresholds would result in Proposed Rule 13f-2 not applying to a significant number of “small
businesses” as defined under Rule 0-7(a).
With respect to the first prong of Threshold A, the $10M trigger would represent forty (40)
percent of the assets of an entity that qualifies as a “small entity” under Rule 0-7(a). The Commission
believes it is also unlikely that a significant number of small entities would place 40% of their respective
assets under management in a short position in a single security. Further, many types of institutional
investment managers that could be small entities, including bank trustees, endowments, and foundations,
are subject to fiduciary standards that prohibit them from investing in large, concentrated short positions.
Such restrictions would deter small entities (with less than $25M of assets under management) from
investing over $10M (greater than 40%) of their assets in a single short position, and therefore prevent
them from triggering the first prong of Threshold A.
386
With respect to the second prong of Threshold A, smaller Managers (those with under $25M in
assets under management) would likely try to leverage their assets through a combination of traditional
short sales and derivative and similar transactions that create economically short exposure to a security.
 386 See Molk and Partnoy, supra note 187 (describing impediments that have kept different types of
institutional investment managers from engaging in short selling).
187
Such entities therefore, would likely engage in strategies that do not lend themselves to a clear
determination that the second prong of Threshold A under Proposed Rule 13f-2 has been met.387 Further,
the Commission estimates, based on an analysis of US common stocks,388 that Managers that qualify as
small entities under Rule 0-7(a) would not meet the 2.5% reporting threshold for securities representing
over ninety-eight percent (98%) of the overall market value.389
When it comes to meeting the dollar value limits of Threshold B and the first prong of Threshold
A, it is important to note that for the subset of Managers that engage in the most short selling activity,
hedge funds,390 less than twenty-five (25) percent have less than $50M in assets under management.391
Indeed, research shows that most hedge funds have assets under management above the amount that
would qualify them as small entities under Rule 0-7(a), i.e., above $25M.392
For these reasons, the Commission certifies that Proposed Rule 13f-2 would not have a
significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities, as defined under Rule 0-10, for
purposes of the RFA. The Commission requests written comments regarding this certification. The
Commission requests that commenters describe the nature of any impact on small businesses and provide
empirical data to support the extent of the impact.
 387 Id. at 839 (positing that “institutions incorporate short selling into their strategies, not necessarily by taking
net-short positions, but instead by combining leveraged long equity index positions with smaller actively managed
short portfolios.”).
388 A small entity, with less than $25M in assets under management, would not be able to hold a short position
of at least 2.5% in a company with a market capitalization above $1B. Such companies represent over 98.5% of the
overall market cap of US equities. See also Stock Market Size Categories (2021), available at
https://stockmarketmba.com/sizecategories.php (calculating approximately three percent (3%) of the US stock
market consists of common stocks of companies with less than $2B in market capitalization (i.e., small-cap and
micro-cap stocks) and noting that micro-cap companies are generally too small for even most large institutional
investment managers to invest in).
389 An analysis by Commission of the daily dataset of the Center for Research in Security Prices (“CRSP”)
showed that for the month of October 2021, on average, the number of companies with less than $1B in market
capitalization (2,293) constituted 1.51% of the overall market capitalization.
390 See Molk and Partnoy, supra note 187, at 846.
391 See David Goldin, Elephant in the room? Size and hedge fund performance, AURUM (June 28, 2019),
available at https://www.aurum.com/insight/elephant-in-the-room-size-and-hedge-fund-performance/.
392 See Daniel Barth et. al., The Hedge Fund Industry is Bigger (and Has Performed Better) Than You Think
(Office of Fin. Research, Working Paper No. 20-01, Feb. 25, 2020, Revised Mar. 8, 2021).
188
Certification for Proposed Rule 205. As discussed in the PRA section above, the Commission
believes that all broker-dealers whose accounts or whose customers’ accounts could hold a gross short
position are potentially in scope for the requirements of Proposed Rule 205.393 A broker-dealer is a small
entity if it has total net capitalization (net worth plus subordinated liabilities) of less than $500,000 on the
date in the prior fiscal year as of which its audited financial statements were prepared pursuant to
§240.17a-5(d), and it is not affiliated with any person (other than a natural person) that is not a small
business or small organization.394
Based on a review of data relating to the broker-dealers potentially in scope for Proposed Rule
205, the Commission does not believe that any of those broker-dealers would qualify as small entities
under the above definition because they either exceed $500,000 in total capital or are affiliated with a
person that is not a small entity as defined in Rule 0-10. It is possible that in the future a small entity may
come within the scope of Proposed Rule 205. Based on experience with broker-dealers that engage in
short selling, however, the Commission believes that this scenario will be unlikely because firms that
enter that market are likely to exceed $500,000 in total capital or be affiliated with a person that is not a
small entity.
For the foregoing reasons, the Commission certifies that Proposed Rule 205 would not have a
significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities for purposes of the RFA. The
Commission encourages written comments regarding this certification, and requests that commenters
describe the nature of any impact on small entities and provide empirical data to illustrate the extent of the
impact.
Certification for the Proposal to Amend CAT. The proposed amendments to the CAT NMS Plan
would impose requirements on the CAT NMS Plan Participants (the national securities exchanges
registered with the Commission under Section 6 of the Exchange Act and FINRA), broker-dealers which
are in scope for the requirements of Proposed Rule 205 and have the obligation to report order receipt and

393 See supra Part VII.C.2. While recognizing that not all broker-dealers will necessarily enter purchase orders
in securities in a manner that will subject them to the marking requirements of Proposed Rule 205, the Commission
estimates, for purposes of the PRA, that all of the 3,551 broker-dealers registered with the Commission as of
December 31, 2020, will do so.
394 Exchange Act Rule 0-10(c).
189
origination reports to the CAT, and broker-dealers that effect short sales utilizing the bona-fide market
making exception pursuant to Rule 203(b)(2)(iii) of Regulation SHO and report to the CAT.
With respect to the national securities exchanges, the Commission’s definition of a small entity is
an exchange that has been exempt from the reporting requirements of Rule 601 of Regulation NMS, and
is not affiliated with any person (other than a natural person) that is not a small business or small
organization.395 None of the national securities exchanges registered under Section 6 of the Exchange Act
that would be subject to the proposed amendments are “small entities” for purposes of the RFA. In
addition, FINRA is not a “small entity.”396 With respect to broker-dealers which are in scope for the
requirements of Proposed Rule 205 and have CAT reporting obligations, as discussed above, the
Commission does not believe that any of those broker-dealers would qualify as small entities pursuant to
Exchange Act Rule 0-10(c).397 Similarly, based on Commission knowledge and experience with brokerdealers that identify as market makers, the Commission does not believe that any broker-dealer that
effects short sales utilizing the bona-fide market making exception pursuant to Rule 203(b)(2)(iii) of
Regulation SHO and reports to the CAT would qualify as a small entity pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 0-
10(c), because they either exceed $500,000 in total capital or are affiliated with a person that is not a
small entity as defined in Rule 0-10. The Commission believes that it is possible, but unlikely, that in the
future a small entity may come within scope of the Proposal to Amend CAT, because firms that enter
either market are likely to exceed $500,000 in total capital or be affiliated with a person that is not a small
entity.
For the foregoing reasons, the Commission certifies that the Proposal to Amend CAT would not
have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities for purposes of the RFA.
The Commission encourages written comments regarding this certification, and requests that commenters
 395 See 17 CFR 240.0-10(e) (stating that a broker-dealer is a small entity if it has total net capitalization (net
worth plus subordinated liabilities) of less than $500,000 on the date in the prior fiscal year as of which its audited
financial statements were prepared pursuant to 17 CFR 240.17a-5(d), and it is not affiliated with any person (other
than a natural person) that is not a small business or small organization).
396 See 13 CFR 121.201.
397 See supra note 395, and accompanying text.
190
describe the nature of any impact on small entities and provide empirical data to illustrate the extent of the
impact.
X. Consideration of Impact on the Economy
For purposes of the Small Business Regulatory Enforcement Fairness Act of 1996, the
Commission is also requesting information regarding the potential impact of Proposed Rule 13f-2,
Proposed Rule 205, and the Proposal to Amend CAT on the economy on an annual basis. In particular,
comments should address whether the proposals, if adopted, would have a $100,000,000 annual effect on
the economy, cause a major increase in costs or prices, or have a significant adverse effect on
competition, investment, or innovations. Commenters are requested to provide empirical data and other
factual support for their views to the extent possible.
Statutory Authority and Text of Proposed Rules 13f-2 and 205, and Form SHO
List of Subjects
17 CFR Parts 240 and 249
Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Securities.
17 CFR Part 242
Brokers, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, securities
TEXT OF PROPOSED RULE AMENDMENTS
In accordance with the foregoing, the Commission is proposing to amend title 17, chapter II of
the Code of the Federal Regulations as follows.
PART 240-GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS, SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT
OF 1934
1. The general authority citation for part 240 continues to read as follows, and the sectional
authority for §240.13f-2(T) is removed.
Authority: 15 U.S.C. 77c, 77d, 77g, 77j, 77s, 77z-2, 77z-3, 77eee, 77ggg, 77nnn, 77sss, 77ttt,
78c, 78c-3, 78c-5, 78d, 78e, 78f, 78g, 78i, 78j, 78j-1, 78k, 78k-1, 78l, 78m, 78n, 78n-1, 78o, 78o-4,
78o-10, 78p, 78q, 78q-1, 78s, 78u-5, 78w, 78x, 78dd, 78ll, 78mm, 80a-20, 80a-23, 80a-29, 80a-37, 80b-3,
80b-4, 80b-11, and 7201 et seq., and 8302; 7 U.S.C. 2(c)(2)(E); 12 U.S.C. 5221(e)(3); 18 U.S.C. 1350;
Pub. L. 111-203, 939A, 124 Stat. 1376 (2010); and Pub. L. 112-106, sec. 503 and 602, 126 Stat. 326
(2012), unless otherwise noted.
191
2. Add §240.13f-2 to read as follows:
§ 240.13f-2 Reporting by institutional investment managers regarding gross short position and
activity information
(a) An institutional investment manager shall file a report on Form SHO (cite to be added), in
accordance with the form’s instructions, with the Commission within 14 calendar days after the end of
each calendar month with regard to:
(1) Each equity security of an issuer that is registered pursuant to Section 12 of the Exchange Act
or for which the issuer is required to file reports pursuant to Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act over
which the institutional investment manager and all accounts over which the institutional investment
manager (or any person under the institutional investment manager’s control) has investment discretion
collectively have either:
(i) A gross short position in the equity security with a US dollar value of $10 million or
more at the close of regular trading hours on any settlement date during the calendar month, or
(ii) A monthly average gross short position as a percentage of shares outstanding in the
equity security of 2.5% or more; and
(2) Each equity security of an issuer that is not registered pursuant to Section 12 of the Exchange
Act or for which the issuer is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act
over which the institutional investment manager and all accounts over which the institutional investment
manager (or any person under the institutional investment manager’s control) has investment discretion
collectively have a gross short position in the equity security with a US dollar value of $500,000 or more
at the close of regular trading hours on any settlement date during the calendar month.
(3) Form SHO and any amendments thereto must be filed with the Commission via the
Commission’s Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis, and Retrieval system (“EDGAR”), in accordance
with Regulation S-T. Certain information regarding each equity security reported by institutional
investment managers on Form SHO and filed with the Commission via EDGAR will be published by the
Commission, on an aggregated basis.
(b) For the purposes of this rule:
192
(1) The term “institutional investment manager” has the same meaning as in Section 13(f)(6)(A)
of the Exchange Act.
(2) The term “equity security” has the same meaning as in Section 3(a)(11) of the Exchange Act
and Rule 3a11-1 thereunder.
(3) The term “investment discretion” has the same meaning as in Rule 13f-1(b) under the
Exchange Act.
(4) The term “gross short position” means the number of shares of the equity security that are
held short, without inclusion of any offsetting economic positions, including shares of the equity
security or derivatives of such equity security.
(5) The term “regular trading hours” has the same meaning as in Rule 600(b)(77) under the
Exchange Act.
PART 242-REGULATIONS M, SHO, ATS, AC, NMS AND SBSR AND CUSTOMER MARGIN
REQUIREMENTS FOR SECURITY FUTURES
3. The authority citation for part 242 continues to read in part as follows:
Authority: 15 U.S.C. 77g, 77q(a), 77s(a), 78b, 78c, 78g(c)(2), 78i(a), 78j, 78k-1(c), 78l, 78m,
78n, 78o(b), 78o(c), 78o(g), 78q(a), 78q(b), 78q(h), 78w(a), 78dd-1, 78mm, 80a-23, 80a-29, and 80a-37.
4. Add §242.205 to read as follows:
§ 242.205 Purchase Order Marking for Data Collection Purposes
(a) A broker-dealer must mark an order to purchase an equity security for an account as “buy to
cover” if the person purchasing the equity security has any gross short position in the equity security in
the same account. The “buy to cover” mark applies to purchases made by the broker-dealer for its own
account, or to purchases made by the broker-dealer on behalf of another person through the person’s
account held at that broker-dealer.
(b) Reserved
PART 249-FORMS, SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
5. The general authority citation for part 249 continues to read as follows:
Authority: 15 U.S.C. 78a et seq. and 7201 et seq.; 12 U.S.C. 5461 et seq.; 18 U.S.C. 1350; Sec.
953(b), Pub. L. 111-203, 124 Stat. 1904; Sec. 102(a)(3), Pub. L. 112-106, 126 Stat. 309 (2012), Sec. 107,
193
Pub. L. 112-106, 126 Stat. 313 (2012), Sec. 72001, Pub. L. 114-94, 129 Stat. 1312 (2015), and Secs. 2
and 3 Pub. L. 116-222, 134 Stat. 1063 (2020), unless otherwise noted.
6. Add §249.333 to read as follows:
§249.333 Form SHO, report of institutional investment managers pursuant to Section 13(f)(2) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
This form shall be used by institutional investment managers that are required to furnish reports pursuant
to Section 13(f)(2) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. (15 U.S.C. 78m(f)(2) and Rule 13f-2
thereunder (§ 240.13f-2 of this chapter)).
Note: The text of Form SHO will not appear in the Code of Federal Regulations.
OMB Number: XXXX-XXXX
FORM SHO
INFORMATION REQUIRED OF INSTITUTIONAL INVESTMENT MANAGERS PURSUANT
TO SECTION 13(f)(2) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 AND RULES
THEREUNDER
GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS
Rule as to Use of Form SHO. Institutional investment managers (“Managers”) must use Form SHO for
reports to the Commission required by Rule 13f-2 [17 CFR 240.13f-2] promulgated under Section
13(f)(2) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 [15 U.S.C. 78m(f)(2)] (“Exchange Act”). A Manager
shall file a report on Form SHO in accordance with these instructions, with the Commission within 14
calendar days after the end of each calendar month with regard to: (1) each equity security of an issuer
that is registered pursuant to Section 12 of the Exchange Act or for which the issuer is required to file
reports pursuant to Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act over which the Manager and all accounts over
which the Manager (or any person under the Manager’s control) has investment discretion collectively
have either (A) a gross short position in the equity security with a US dollar value of $10 million or more
at the close of regular trading hours on any settlement date during the calendar month, or (B) a monthly
average gross short position as a percentage of shares outstanding in the equity security of 2.5% or more;
and (2) each equity security of an issuer that is not registered pursuant to Section 12 of the Exchange Act
or for which the issuer is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act over
which the Manager and all accounts over which the Manager (or any person under the Manager’s control)
has investment discretion collectively have a gross short position in the equity security with a US dollar
value of $500,000 or more at the close of regular trading hours on any settlement date during the calendar
month. For purposes of Rule 13f-2 and Form SHO, “regular trading hours” shall have the meaning
ascribed in Rule 600(b)(77) under the Exchange Act [17 CFR 242.600(b)(77)].
A Manager that determines that it has filed a Form SHO with errors that affect the accuracy of the short
sale data reported must file an amended and restated Form SHO within ten (10) calendar days of
discovering the error.
Rules to Prevent Duplicative Reporting. If two or more Managers, each of which is required by Rule
13f-2 to file Form SHO for the reporting period, exercise investment discretion with respect to the same
securities, only one such Manager must report the information in its report on Form SHO. If a Manager
has information that is required to be reported on Form SHO and such information is reported by another
194
Manager (or Managers), such Manager must identify the Manager(s) reporting on its behalf in the manner
described in Special Instruction 5.
Filing of Form SHO. A reporting Manager must file Form SHO with the Commission via the
Commission’s Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis, and Retrieval system (“EDGAR”), in accordance
with Regulation S-T. The Commission plans to publish certain data from the filings on an aggregated
basis.
All information that would reveal the identity of a Manager filing a Form SHO report with the
Commission, or the identity of any Other Manager listed on the Cover Page of a Form SHO report, is
deemed subject to a confidential treatment request under 17 C.F.R. 240.24b-2. The Commission plans to
publish only aggregated data derived from information provided in Form SHO reports.
Technical filing errors may cause delays in the filing of Form SHO. Technical support for making Form
SHO reports is available through EDGAR Filer Support. Support for questions regarding non-technical
issues related to Form SHO reporting is available through the Office of Interpretation and Guidance of the
Division of Trading and Markets (“TM OIG”) at TradingAndMarkets@sec.gov.
INSTRUCTIONS FOR CALCULATING REPORTING THRESHOLD
A Manager shall file a report on Form SHO:
• with regard to each equity security of an issuer that is registered pursuant to section 12 of the
Exchange Act or for which the issuer is required to file reports pursuant to section 15(d) of the
Exchange Act (a “reporting company issuer”) in which the Manager meets or exceeds under
either of the following circumstances: (1) the Manager, and all accounts over which the Manager,
or any person under the Manager’s control, has investment discretion, collectively have a gross
short position in the equity security with a US dollar value of $10 million or more at the close of
regular trading hours on any settlement date during the calendar month; or (2) the Manager, and
all accounts over which the Manager, or any person under the Manager’s control, has investment
discretion, collectively have a monthly average gross short position as a percentage of shares
outstanding in the equity security of 2.5% or more (“Threshold A”).
• with regard to any equity security of an issuer that is not a reporting company issuer as described
above (a “non-reporting company issuer”) in which the Manager meets or exceeds a gross short
position in the equity security with a US dollar value of $500,000 or more at the close of regular
trading hours on any settlement date during the calendar month (“Threshold B”).
With respect to each equity security to which the circumstances described in Threshold A or Threshold B
applies, the Manager shall report the information, as described in the “Special Instructions” below,
aggregated across accounts over which the Manager, or any person under the Manager’s control, has
investment discretion.
To determine whether the dollar value threshold described in (1) of Threshold A above is met, a Manager
shall determine its end of day gross short position on each settlement date during the calendar month and
multiply that figure by the closing price at the close of regular trading hours on the settlement date.
To determine whether the dollar value threshold described in Threshold B above is met, a Manager shall
determine its end of day gross short position in the equity security on each settlement date during the
calendar month and multiply that figure by the closing price at the close of regular trading hours on the
settlement date. If such closing price is not available, a Manager shall use the price at which it last
purchased or sold any share of that security.
To determine whether the percentage threshold described in (2) of Threshold A above is met, the
Manager shall (a) identify its gross short position (as defined in Rule 13f-2) in the equity security at the
close of each settlement date during the calendar month of the reporting period, and divide that figure by
the number of shares outstanding in such security at the close of that settlement date, and (b) add up the
195
daily percentages during the calendar month as determined in (a) and divide that total by the number of
settlement dates during the calendar month of the reporting period. The number of shares outstanding of
the security for which information is being reported shall be determined by reference to an issuer’s most
recent annual or quarterly report, and any subsequent update thereto, filed with the Commission.
SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS
1. This form consists of two parts: the Cover Page, and the Information Tables.
Cover Page:
2. The period end date used in the report (and in the EDGAR submission header) is the last
settlement day of the calendar month. The date shall name the month, and express the day and year in
Arabic numerals, with the year being a four-digit numeral (e.g., 2022).
3. Amendments to Form SHO must restate the Form SHO in its entirety. If the Manager is filing the
Form SHO report as an amendment, then the Manager must check the “Amendment and Restatement”
box on the Cover Page; and enter the amendment number. Each Amendment and Restatement must
include a complete Cover Page and Information Tables. Amendments must be filed sequentially.
a. In the space designated on the Cover of Page of each Amendment and Restatement, a
Manager shall (1) provide a written description of the revision being made; (2) explain
the reason for the revision; and (3) indicate whether data from any additional Form SHO
reporting period(s) (up to the past 12 calendar months) is/are affected by the Amendment
and Restatement. If (3) applies, a Manager shall complete and file a separate
Amendment and Restatement for each previous calendar month so affected (up to the
past 12 months) and provide a description of the revision being made and explain the
reason for the revision.
b. If the data being reported in an Amendment and Restatement affects the data reported on
the Form SHO reports filed in at least three of the immediately preceding Form SHO
reporting periods, the Manager, within two (2) business days after filing the Amendment
and Restatement, must provide the Commission staff, via TM OIG at
TradingAndMarkets@sec.gov, with notice of (1) this circumstance; and (2) an
explanation of the reason for the revision.
c. If a revision reported in an Amendment and Restatement changes a data point reported in
the Form SHO being amended by twenty-five percent (25%) or more, the Manager must
notify the Commission staff via TM OIG at TradingAndMarkets@sec.gov within two (2)
business days after filing the Amendment and Restatement.
4. The Cover Page shall include only the required information. Do not include any portions of the
Information Tables on the Cover Page.
5. Designate the Report Type for the Form SHO by checking the appropriate box in the Report Type
section of the Cover Page, and include, where applicable, the Name and active Legal Entity Identifier
(“LEI”) (if available) of each of the Other Managers Reporting for this Manager on the Cover Page, and
the Information Tables, as follows:
a. If all of the information that a Manager is required by Rule 13f-2 to report on Form SHO
is reported by another Manager (or Managers), check the box for Report Type “FORM
SHO NOTICE,” include on the Cover Page the Name and active LEI (if available) of
each of the Other Managers Reporting for this Manager, and omit the Information Tables.
196
b. If all of the information that a Manager is required by Rule 13f-2 to report on Form SHO
is reported in this report, check the box for Report Type “FORM SHO ENTRIES
REPORT,” omit the “Name and Active LEI (if available) of each of the Other Managers
Reporting for this Manager” section of the Cover Page, and include the Information
Tables.

c. If only a part of the information that a Manager is required by Rule 13f-2 to report on
Form SHO is reported in this report, check the box for Report Type “FORM SHO
COMBINATION REPORT,” include on the Cover Page the name and active LEI (if
available) of each of the Other Managers Reporting for this Manager, and include the
Information Tables.
Information Tables:
6. Do not include any additional information in the Information Tables. Do not include any portions
of the Information Tables on the Cover Page.
7. In reporting information required on Information Tables 1 and 2, Managers must account for and
report a gross short position in an ETF, and activity that results in the acquisition or sale of shares of the
ETF resulting from call options exercises or assignments; put options exercises or assignments; tendered
conversions; secondary offering transactions; or other activity, as discussed further below. In determining
its gross short position in an equity security, however, a Manager is not required to consider short
positions that the ETF holds in individual underlying equity securities that are part of the ETF basket.
8. Instructions for Information Table 1—Manager’s Gross Short Position Information:
a. Column 1. Settlement Date. Enter in Column 1 the last day of the calendar month of the
reporting period on which a trade settles (“settlement date”).
b. Column 2. Issuer Name. Enter in Column 2 the name of the issuer of the security for which
information is being reported. Reasonable abbreviations are permitted.
c. Column 3. Issuer LEI. If the issuer has an LEI, enter the issuer’s active LEI in Column 3.
d. Column 4. Title of Class. Enter in Column 4 the title of the class of the security for which
information is being reported. Reasonable abbreviations are permitted.
e. Column 5. CUSIP Number. Enter in Column 5 the nine (9) digit CUSIP number of the security
for which information is being reported, if applicable.
f. Column 6. FIGI. Enter in Column 6 the twelve (12) character, alphanumeric Financial
Instrument Global Identifier (“FIGI”) of the security for which information is being reported, if a
FIGI has been assigned.
g. Column 7. End of Month Gross Short Position (Number of Shares). Enter in Column 7 the
number of shares that represent the Manager’s gross short position in the security for which
information is being reported at the close of regular trading hours on the last settlement date of
the calendar month of the reporting period. The term “gross short position” means the number of
shares of the security for which information is being reported that are held short, without
inclusion of any offsetting economic positions—including shares of the reportable equity security
or derivatives of such security.
197
h. Column 8. End of Month Gross Short Position (rounded to nearest USD). Enter in Column 8 the
US dollar value of the shares reported in Column 7, rounded to the nearest dollar. A Manager
shall report the corresponding dollar value of the reported gross short position by multiplying the
number of shares of the security for which information is being reported by the closing price at
the close of regular trading hours on the last settlement date of the calendar month. In
circumstances where such closing price is not available, the Manager shall use the price at which
it last purchased or sold any share of that security.
i. Column 9. Extent of Hedge for Short Position Identified in Column 7. Enter in Column 9
whether the identified position is fully hedged (“F”), partially hedged (“P”), or not hedged (“0”).
A Manager shall indicate that a reported gross short position in an equity security is “fully
hedged” if the Manager also holds an offsetting position that reduces the risk of price fluctuations
for its entire position in that equity security, for example, through “delta” hedging (in which the
Manager’s reported gross short position is offset 1-for-1), or similar hedging strategies. A
Manager shall report that it is “partially hedged” if the Manager holds an offsetting position that
is less than the identified price risk associated with the reported gross short position in that equity
security.
9. Instructions for Information Table 2—Daily Activity Affecting Manager’s Gross Short Position
During the Reporting Period:
a. Column 1. Settlement Date. Enter in Column 1 each date during the reporting period on which a
trade settles (settlement date). The Manager shall report information for each settlement date
during the calendar month reporting period as described in these instructions.
b. Column 2. Issuer Name. Enter in Column 2 the name of the issuer of the equity security for
which information is being reported. Reasonable abbreviations are permitted.
c. Column 3. Issuer LEI. If the issuer has an LEI, enter the issuer’s active LEI in Column 3.
d. Column 4. Title of Class. Enter in Column 4 the title of the class of the security for which
information is being reported. Reasonable abbreviations are permitted.
e. Column 5. CUSIP Number. Enter in Column 5 the nine (9) digit CUSIP number of the security
for which information is being reported, if applicable.
f. Column 6. FIGI. Enter in Column 6 the twelve (12) character, alphanumeric FIGI of the security
for which information is being reported, if a FIGI has been assigned.
g. Column 7. Number of Shares Sold Short. For the settlement date set forth in Column 1, enter the
number of shares of the security for which information is being reported that resulted from short
sales and settled on that date.
h. Column 8. Number of Shares Purchased to Cover an Existing Short Position. For the settlement
date set forth in Column 1, enter the number of shares of the security for which information is
being reported that were purchased to cover, in whole or in part, an existing short position and
settled on that date.
i. Column 9. Number of Shares Purchased in Exercised Call Option Contracts. For the settlement
date set forth in Column 1, enter the number of shares of the security for which information is
being reported that are acquired in a call option exercise that reduces or closes a short position on
that security and settled on that date.
198
j. Column 10. Number of Shares Sold in Exercised Put Option Contracts. For the settlement date
set forth in Column 1, enter the number of shares of the security for which information is being
reported that are sold in a put option exercise that creates or increases a short position on that
security and settled on that date.
k. Column 11. Number of Shares Sold in Assigned Call Option Contracts. For the settlement date
set forth in Column 1, enter the number of shares of the security for which information is being
reported that are sold in a call option assignment that creates or increases a short position on that
security and settled on that date.
l. Column 12. Number of Shares Purchased in Assigned Put Option Contracts. For the settlement
date set forth in Column 1, enter the number of shares of the security for which information is
being reported that are acquired in a put option assignment that reduces or closes a short position
on that security and settled on that date.
m. Column 13. Number of Shares Resulting from Tendered Conversions. For the settlement date
set forth in Column 1, enter the number of shares of the security for which information is being
reported that are acquired as a result of the tendered conversions that reduces or closes a short
position on that security and settled on that date.
n. Column 14. Number of Shares Obtained through Secondary Offering Transactions. For the
settlement date set forth in Column 1, enter the number of shares of the security for which
information is being reported that were obtained through a secondary offering transaction that
reduces or closes a short position on that security and settled on that date.
o. Column 15. Other Activity that Creates or Increases a Manager’s Short Position. For the
settlement date set forth in Column 1, enter the number of shares of the security for which
information is being reported that resulted from other activity not previously reported on this
form that creates or increases a short position on that security and settled on that date. Other
activity to be reported includes, but is not limited to, shares resulting from ETF creation or
redemption activity.
p. Column 16. Other Activity that Reduces or Closes a Manager’s Short Position. For the
settlement date set forth in Column 1, enter the number of shares of the security for which
information is being reported that resulted from other activity not previously reported on this
form that reduces or closes a short position on that security and settled on that date. Other
activity to be reported includes, but is not limited to, shares resulting from ETF creation or
redemption activity.
PAPERWORK REDUCTION ACT INFORMATION
Persons who are to respond to the collection of information contained in this form are not required to
respond to the collection of information unless the form displays a currently valid Office of Management
and Budget (“OMB”) control number.
199
OMB Number: XXXX-XXXX
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
FORM SHO
FORM SHO COVER PAGE

Report for the Period Ended: [Month / Day / Year]
Check here if Amendment and Restatement [ ]; Amendment Number:
Description of the Amendment and Restatement, Reason for the Amendment and Restatement, and
Which Additional Form SHO Reporting Period(s) (up to the past 12 calendar months), if any, is/are
affected by the Amendment and Restatement:
Institutional Investment Manager (“Manager”) Filing Report:
Name: ______________________________________
Mailing Address: ______________________________
Business Telephone and Facsimile Number: __________________
Active Legal Entity Identifier (“LEI”): ______
Contact Employee:
Name and Title: _________________ Telephone Number: _________ Facsimile Number: ________
Date Filed: ________
The Manager filing this report hereby represents that all information contained herein is true, correct and
complete, and that it is understood that all required items, statements, schedules, lists, and tables, are
considered integral parts of this form.
Report Type (Check only one):
[ ] FORM SHO ENTRIES REPORT. (Check here if all entries of this reporting Manager are reported in
this report.)
[ ] FORM SHO NOTICE. (Check here if no entries reported are in this report, and all entries are reported
by other reporting Manager(s).)
[ ] FORM SHO COMBINATION REPORT. (Check here if a portion of the entries for this reporting
Manager is reported in this report and a portion is reported by other reporting Manager(s).)
Name and Active LEI of each of the Other Manager(s) Reporting for this Manager:
[If there are no entries in this list, omit this section.]
Name: _____________________ Active LEI: ______________________
[Repeat as necessary.]
200
INFORMATION TABLE 1 – Manager’s Gross Short Position Information
(Repeat as Necessary)
Column
1
Column
2
Column
3
Column
4
Column
5
Column
6
Column
7
Column
8
Column
9
Settlement
Date
(Month
End)
Issuer
Name
Issuer LEI Title of
Class
CUSIP
Number
FIGI End of
Month
Gross Short
Position
(Number of
Shares)
End of
Month
Gross Short
Position
(rounded to
nearest
USD)
Extent of
Hedge for
Position
Identified
in Column
7
201
INFORMATION TABLE 2 – Daily Activity Affecting Manager’s Gross Short Position During the
Reporting Period
Column
11
Column
12
Column
13
Column
14
Column
15
Column
16
Number of
Shares Sold in
Assigned Call
Option Contracts
Number of
Shares
Purchased in
Assigned Put
Option Contracts
Number of
Shares Resulting
from Tendered
Conversions
Number of
Shares Obtained
Through
Secondary
Offering
Transactions
Other Activity
that Creates or
Increases
Manager’s Short
Position
Other Activity
that Reduces or
Closes
Manager’s Short
Position
(Repeat as Necessary)
Dated: February 25, 2022
By the Commission.
Eduardo A. Aleman
Deputy Secretary
Column
1
Column
2
Column
3
Column
4
Column
5
Column
6
Column
7
Column
8
Column
9
Column
10
Settlement
Date
Issuer
Name
Issuer LEI Title of
Class
CUSIP
Number
FIGI Number
of Shares
Sold Short
Number
of Shares
Purchased
to Cover
an
Existing
Short
Position
Number
of Shares
Purchased
in
Exercised
Call
Option
Contracts
Number
of Shares
Sold in
Exercised
Put
Option
Contracts